control/autonomous_emergency_braking/README.md, before:

# Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB)

## Purpose / Role

`autonomous_emergency_braking` is a module that prevents collisions with obstacles on the predicted path created by a control module or sensor values estimated from the control module.

### Assumptions

This module has following assumptions.

- It is used when driving at low speeds (about 15 km/h).

- The predicted path of the ego vehicle can be made from either the path created from sensors or the path created from a control module, or both.

- The current speed and angular velocity can be obtained from the sensors of the ego vehicle, and it uses point cloud as obstacles.

![aeb_range](./image/range.drawio.svg)

### Limitations

- AEB might not be able to react with obstacles that are close to the ground. It depends on the performance of the pre-processing methods applied to the point cloud.

- Longitudinal acceleration information obtained from sensors is not used due to the high amount of noise.

- The accuracy of the predicted path created from sensor data depends on the accuracy of sensors attached to the ego vehicle.

## Parameters

| Name                              | Unit   | Type   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                     | Default value |
| :-------------------------------- | :----- | :----- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------ |
| publish_debug_pointcloud          | [-]    | bool   | flag to publish the point cloud used for debugging                                                                                                                                              | false         |
| use_predicted_trajectory          | [-]    | bool   | flag to use the predicted path from the control module                                                                                                                                          | true          |
| use_imu_path                      | [-]    | bool   | flag to use the predicted path generated by sensor data                                                                                                                                         | true          |
| detection_range_min_height        | [m]    | double | minimum hight of detection range used for avoiding the ghost brake by false positive point clouds                                                                                               | 0.0           |
| detection_range_max_height_margin | [m]    | double | margin for maximum hight of detection range used for avoiding the ghost brake by false positive point clouds. `detection_range_max_height = vehicle_height + detection_range_max_height_margin` | 0.0           |
| voxel_grid_x                      | [m]    | double | down sampling parameters of x-axis for voxel grid filter                                                                                                                                        | 0.05          |
| voxel_grid_y                      | [m]    | double | down sampling parameters of y-axis for voxel grid filter                                                                                                                                        | 0.05          |
| voxel_grid_z                      | [m]    | double | down sampling parameters of z-axis for voxel grid filter                                                                                                                                        | 100000.0      |
| min_generated_path_length         | [m]    | double | minimum distance for a predicted path generated by sensors                                                                                                                                      | 0.5           |
| expand_width                      | [m]    | double | expansion width of the ego vehicle for the collision check                                                                                                                                      | 0.1           |
| longitudinal_offset               | [m]    | double | longitudinal offset distance for collision check                                                                                                                                                | 2.0           |
| t_response                        | [s]    | double | response time for the ego to detect the front vehicle starting deceleration                                                                                                                     | 1.0           |
| a_ego_min                         | [m/ss] | double | maximum deceleration value of the ego vehicle                                                                                                                                                   | -3.0          |
| a_obj_min                         | [m/ss] | double | maximum deceleration value of objects                                                                                                                                                           | -3.0          |
| imu_prediction_time_horizon       | [s]    | double | time horizon of the predicted path generated by sensors                                                                                                                                         | 1.5           |
| imu_prediction_time_interval      | [s]    | double | time interval of the predicted path generated by sensors                                                                                                                                        | 0.1           |
| mpc_prediction_time_horizon       | [s]    | double | time horizon of the predicted path generated by mpc                                                                                                                                             | 1.5           |
| mpc_prediction_time_interval      | [s]    | double | time interval of the predicted path generated by mpc                                                                                                                                            | 0.1           |
| aeb_hz                            | [-]    | double | frequency at which AEB operates per second                                                                                                                                                      | 10            |

## Inner-workings / Algorithms

AEB has the following steps before it outputs the emergency stop signal.

1. Activate AEB if necessary.

2. Generate a predicted path of the ego vehicle.

3. Get target obstacles from the input point cloud.

4. Collision check with target obstacles.

5. Send emergency stop signals to `/diagnostics`.

We give more details of each section below.

### 1. Activate AEB if necessary

We do not activate AEB module if it satisfies the following conditions.

- Ego vehicle is not in autonomous driving state

- When the ego vehicle is not moving (Current Velocity is very low)

### 2. Generate a predicted path of the ego vehicle

AEB generates a predicted path based on current velocity and current angular velocity obtained from attached sensors. Note that if `use_imu_path` is `false`, it skips this step. This predicted path is generated as:

$$
x_{k+1} = x_k + v cos(\theta_k) dt \\
y_{k+1} = y_k + v sin(\theta_k) dt \\
\theta_{k+1} = \theta_k + \omega dt
$$

where $v$ and $\omega$ are current longitudinal velocity and angular velocity respectively. $dt$ is time interval that users can define in advance.

### 3. Get target obstacles from the input point cloud

After generating the ego predicted path, we select target obstacles from the input point cloud. This obstacle filtering has three major steps, which are rough filtering, noise filtering with clustering and rigorous filtering.

#### Rough filtering

In rough filtering step, we select target obstacle with simple filter. Create a search area up to a certain distance (default is half of the ego vehicle width plus the `path_footprint_extra_margin` parameter) away from the predicted path of the ego vehicle and ignore the point cloud that are not within it. The image of the rough filtering is illustrated below.

![rough_filtering](./image/obstacle_filtering_1.drawio.svg)

#### Noise filtering with clustering and convex hulls

To prevent the AEB from considering noisy points, euclidean clustering is performed on the filtered point cloud. The points in the point cloud that are not close enough to other points to form a cluster are discarded. The parameters `cluster_tolerance`, `minimum_cluster_size` and `maximum_cluster_size` can be used to tune the clustering and the size of objects to be ignored, for more information about the clustering method used by the AEB module, please check the official documentation on euclidean clustering of the PCL library: <https://pcl.readthedocs.io/projects/tutorials/en/master/cluster_extraction.html>.

Furthermore, a 2D convex hull is created around each detected cluster, the vertices of each hull represent the most extreme/outside points of the cluster. These vertices are then checked in the next step.

#### Rigorous filtering

After Noise filtering, it performs a geometric collision check to determine whether the filtered obstacles/hull vertices actually have possibility to collide with the ego vehicle. In this check, the ego vehicle is represented as a rectangle, and the point cloud obstacles are represented as points. Only the vertices with a possibility of collision are kept.

![rigorous_filtering](./image/obstacle_filtering_2.drawio.svg)

Finally, the vertex that is closest to the ego vehicle is chosen as the candidate for collision checking: Since rss distance is used to judge if a collision will happen or not, if the closest vertex to the ego is deemed to be safe, the rest of the vertices (and the points in the clusters) will also be safe.

#### Obstacle velocity estimation

Once the position of the closest obstacle/point is determined, the AEB modules uses the history of previously detected objects to estimate the closest object speed using the following equations:

$$
d_{t} = o_{time stamp} - prev_{time stamp}
$$

$$
d_{pos} = norm(o_{pos} - prev_{pos})
$$

$$
v_{norm} = d_{pos} / d_{t}
$$

Where $o_{time stamp}$ and $prev_{time stamp}$ are the timestamps of the point clouds used to detect the current closest object and the closest object of the previous point cloud frame, and $o_{pos}$ and $prev_{pos}$ are the positions of those objects, respectively.

Finally, the velocity vector is compared against the ego's predicted path to get the longitudinal velocity $v_{obj}$:

$$
v_{obj} = v_{norm} * Cos(yaw_{diff}) + v_{ego}
$$

where $yaw_{diff}$ is the difference in yaw between the ego path and the displacement vector $$v_{pos} = o_{pos} - prev_{pos} $$ and $v_{ego}$ is the ego's speed, which accounts for the movement of points caused by the ego moving and not the object.
All these equations are performed disregarding the z axis (in 2D).

### 4. Collision check with target obstacles

In the fourth step, it checks the collision with filtered obstacles using RSS distance. RSS is formulated as:

$$
d = v_{ego}*t_{response} + v_{ego}^2/(2*a_{min}) - v_{obj}^2/(2*a_{obj_{min}}) + offset
$$

where $v_{ego}$ and $v_{obj}$ is current ego and obstacle velocity, $a_{min}$ and $a_{obj_{min}}$ is ego and object minimum acceleration (maximum deceleration), $t_{response}$ is response time of the ego vehicle to start deceleration. Therefore the distance from the ego vehicle to the obstacle is smaller than this RSS distance $d$, the ego vehicle send emergency stop signals. This is illustrated in the following picture.

![rss_check](./image/rss_check.drawio.svg)

### 5. Send emergency stop signals to `/diagnostics`

If AEB detects collision with point cloud obstacles in the previous step, it sends emergency signal to `/diagnostics` in this step. Note that in order to enable emergency stop, it has to send ERROR level emergency. Moreover, AEB user should modify the setting file to keep the emergency level, otherwise Autoware does not hold the emergency state.

Commit message:

feat(autonomous_emergency_braking): add info about IMU vs Steering info for AEB doc (#7098)
* add info about IMU vs Steering

Signed-off-by: Daniel Sanchez <danielsanchezaran@gmail.com>

* steering rate ->angle

Signed-off-by: Daniel Sanchez <danielsanchezaran@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Daniel Sanchez <danielsanchezaran@gmail.com>

control/autonomous_emergency_braking/README.md, after:

# Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB)

## Purpose / Role

`autonomous_emergency_braking` is a module that prevents collisions with obstacles on the predicted path created by a control module or sensor values estimated from the control module.

### Assumptions

This module has following assumptions.

- It is used when driving at low speeds (about 15 km/h).

- The predicted path of the ego vehicle can be made from either the path created from sensors or the path created from a control module, or both.

- The current speed and angular velocity can be obtained from the sensors of the ego vehicle, and it uses point cloud as obstacles.

![aeb_range](./image/range.drawio.svg)

### IMU path generation: steering angle vs IMU's angular velocity

Currently, the IMU-based path is generated using the angular velocity obtained by the IMU itself. It has been suggested that the steering angle could be used instead onf the angular velocity.

The pros and cons of both approaches are:

IMU angular velocity:

- (+) Usually, it has high accuracy
- (-)Vehicle vibration might introduce noise.

Steering angle:

- (+) Not so noisy
- (-) May have a steering offset or a wrong gear ratio, and the steering angle of Autoware and the real steering may not be the same.

For the moment, there are no plans to implement the steering angle on the path creation process of the AEB module.

### Limitations

- AEB might not be able to react with obstacles that are close to the ground. It depends on the performance of the pre-processing methods applied to the point cloud.

- Longitudinal acceleration information obtained from sensors is not used due to the high amount of noise.

- The accuracy of the predicted path created from sensor data depends on the accuracy of sensors attached to the ego vehicle.

## Parameters

| Name                              | Unit   | Type   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                     | Default value |
| :-------------------------------- | :----- | :----- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------ |
| publish_debug_pointcloud          | [-]    | bool   | flag to publish the point cloud used for debugging                                                                                                                                              | false         |
| use_predicted_trajectory          | [-]    | bool   | flag to use the predicted path from the control module                                                                                                                                          | true          |
| use_imu_path                      | [-]    | bool   | flag to use the predicted path generated by sensor data                                                                                                                                         | true          |
| detection_range_min_height        | [m]    | double | minimum hight of detection range used for avoiding the ghost brake by false positive point clouds                                                                                               | 0.0           |
| detection_range_max_height_margin | [m]    | double | margin for maximum hight of detection range used for avoiding the ghost brake by false positive point clouds. `detection_range_max_height = vehicle_height + detection_range_max_height_margin` | 0.0           |
| voxel_grid_x                      | [m]    | double | down sampling parameters of x-axis for voxel grid filter                                                                                                                                        | 0.05          |
| voxel_grid_y                      | [m]    | double | down sampling parameters of y-axis for voxel grid filter                                                                                                                                        | 0.05          |
| voxel_grid_z                      | [m]    | double | down sampling parameters of z-axis for voxel grid filter                                                                                                                                        | 100000.0      |
| min_generated_path_length         | [m]    | double | minimum distance for a predicted path generated by sensors                                                                                                                                      | 0.5           |
| expand_width                      | [m]    | double | expansion width of the ego vehicle for the collision check                                                                                                                                      | 0.1           |
| longitudinal_offset               | [m]    | double | longitudinal offset distance for collision check                                                                                                                                                | 2.0           |
| t_response                        | [s]    | double | response time for the ego to detect the front vehicle starting deceleration                                                                                                                     | 1.0           |
| a_ego_min                         | [m/ss] | double | maximum deceleration value of the ego vehicle                                                                                                                                                   | -3.0          |
| a_obj_min                         | [m/ss] | double | maximum deceleration value of objects                                                                                                                                                           | -3.0          |
| imu_prediction_time_horizon       | [s]    | double | time horizon of the predicted path generated by sensors                                                                                                                                         | 1.5           |
| imu_prediction_time_interval      | [s]    | double | time interval of the predicted path generated by sensors                                                                                                                                        | 0.1           |
| mpc_prediction_time_horizon       | [s]    | double | time horizon of the predicted path generated by mpc                                                                                                                                             | 1.5           |
| mpc_prediction_time_interval      | [s]    | double | time interval of the predicted path generated by mpc                                                                                                                                            | 0.1           |
| aeb_hz                            | [-]    | double | frequency at which AEB operates per second                                                                                                                                                      | 10            |

## Inner-workings / Algorithms

AEB has the following steps before it outputs the emergency stop signal.

1. Activate AEB if necessary.

2. Generate a predicted path of the ego vehicle.

3. Get target obstacles from the input point cloud.

4. Collision check with target obstacles.

5. Send emergency stop signals to `/diagnostics`.

We give more details of each section below.

### 1. Activate AEB if necessary

We do not activate AEB module if it satisfies the following conditions.

- Ego vehicle is not in autonomous driving state

- When the ego vehicle is not moving (Current Velocity is very low)

### 2. Generate a predicted path of the ego vehicle

AEB generates a predicted path based on current velocity and current angular velocity obtained from attached sensors. Note that if `use_imu_path` is `false`, it skips this step. This predicted path is generated as:

$$
x_{k+1} = x_k + v cos(\theta_k) dt \\
y_{k+1} = y_k + v sin(\theta_k) dt \\
\theta_{k+1} = \theta_k + \omega dt
$$

where $v$ and $\omega$ are current longitudinal velocity and angular velocity respectively. $dt$ is time interval that users can define in advance.

### 3. Get target obstacles from the input point cloud

After generating the ego predicted path, we select target obstacles from the input point cloud. This obstacle filtering has three major steps, which are rough filtering, noise filtering with clustering and rigorous filtering.

#### Rough filtering

In rough filtering step, we select target obstacle with simple filter. Create a search area up to a certain distance (default is half of the ego vehicle width plus the `path_footprint_extra_margin` parameter) away from the predicted path of the ego vehicle and ignore the point cloud that are not within it. The image of the rough filtering is illustrated below.

![rough_filtering](./image/obstacle_filtering_1.drawio.svg)

#### Noise filtering with clustering and convex hulls

To prevent the AEB from considering noisy points, euclidean clustering is performed on the filtered point cloud. The points in the point cloud that are not close enough to other points to form a cluster are discarded. The parameters `cluster_tolerance`, `minimum_cluster_size` and `maximum_cluster_size` can be used to tune the clustering and the size of objects to be ignored, for more information about the clustering method used by the AEB module, please check the official documentation on euclidean clustering of the PCL library: <https://pcl.readthedocs.io/projects/tutorials/en/master/cluster_extraction.html>.

Furthermore, a 2D convex hull is created around each detected cluster, the vertices of each hull represent the most extreme/outside points of the cluster. These vertices are then checked in the next step.

#### Rigorous filtering

After Noise filtering, it performs a geometric collision check to determine whether the filtered obstacles/hull vertices actually have possibility to collide with the ego vehicle. In this check, the ego vehicle is represented as a rectangle, and the point cloud obstacles are represented as points. Only the vertices with a possibility of collision are kept.

![rigorous_filtering](./image/obstacle_filtering_2.drawio.svg)

Finally, the vertex that is closest to the ego vehicle is chosen as the candidate for collision checking: Since rss distance is used to judge if a collision will happen or not, if the closest vertex to the ego is deemed to be safe, the rest of the vertices (and the points in the clusters) will also be safe.

#### Obstacle velocity estimation

Once the position of the closest obstacle/point is determined, the AEB modules uses the history of previously detected objects to estimate the closest object speed using the following equations:

$$
d_{t} = o_{time stamp} - prev_{time stamp}
$$

$$
d_{pos} = norm(o_{pos} - prev_{pos})
$$

$$
v_{norm} = d_{pos} / d_{t}
$$

Where $o_{time stamp}$ and $prev_{time stamp}$ are the timestamps of the point clouds used to detect the current closest object and the closest object of the previous point cloud frame, and $o_{pos}$ and $prev_{pos}$ are the positions of those objects, respectively.

Finally, the velocity vector is compared against the ego's predicted path to get the longitudinal velocity $v_{obj}$:

$$
v_{obj} = v_{norm} * Cos(yaw_{diff}) + v_{ego}
$$

where $yaw_{diff}$ is the difference in yaw between the ego path and the displacement vector $$v_{pos} = o_{pos} - prev_{pos} $$ and $v_{ego}$ is the ego's speed, which accounts for the movement of points caused by the ego moving and not the object.
All these equations are performed disregarding the z axis (in 2D).

### 4. Collision check with target obstacles

In the fourth step, it checks the collision with filtered obstacles using RSS distance. RSS is formulated as:

$$
d = v_{ego}*t_{response} + v_{ego}^2/(2*a_{min}) - v_{obj}^2/(2*a_{obj_{min}}) + offset
$$

where $v_{ego}$ and $v_{obj}$ is current ego and obstacle velocity, $a_{min}$ and $a_{obj_{min}}$ is ego and object minimum acceleration (maximum deceleration), $t_{response}$ is response time of the ego vehicle to start deceleration. Therefore the distance from the ego vehicle to the obstacle is smaller than this RSS distance $d$, the ego vehicle send emergency stop signals. This is illustrated in the following picture.

![rss_check](./image/rss_check.drawio.svg)

### 5. Send emergency stop signals to `/diagnostics`

If AEB detects collision with point cloud obstacles in the previous step, it sends emergency signal to `/diagnostics` in this step. Note that in order to enable emergency stop, it has to send ERROR level emergency. Moreover, AEB user should modify the setting file to keep the emergency level, otherwise Autoware does not hold the emergency state.
