ansible/roles/ros2/README.md, before:

# ros2

This role installs [ROS 2](http://www.ros2.org/) following [this page](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debians.html).

Additional steps may be needed depending on the `rosdistro` you choose.

<!-- TODO: Add these steps to the role if Humble requires. -->

```bash
$ sudo apt install software-properties-common
$ sudo add-apt-repository universe
$ apt-cache policy | grep universe
 500 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu focal/universe amd64 Packages
     release v=20.04,o=Ubuntu,a=focal,n=focal,l=Ubuntu,c=universe,b=amd64
```

## Inputs

| Name                   | Required | Description                                      |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| rosdistro              | true     | The ROS distro.                                  |
| ros2_installation_type | false    | The installation type (`desktop` or `ros-base`). |

## Manual Installation

The `ros2_installation_type` variable can also be found in:
[./defaults/main.yaml](./defaults/main.yaml)

For Universe, the `rosdistro` variable can also be found in:
[../../playbooks/universe.yaml](../../playbooks/universe.yaml)

```bash
wget -O /tmp/amd64.env https://raw.githubusercontent.com/autowarefoundation/autoware/main/amd64.env && source /tmp/amd64.env

# Taken from: https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debians.html

# You will need to add the ROS 2 apt repository to your system. First, make sure that the Ubuntu Universe repository is enabled by checking the output of this command.
apt-cache policy | grep universe

# The output of the above command should contain following:

# 500 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu focal/universe amd64 Packages
#     release v=20.04,o=Ubuntu,a=focal,n=focal,l=Ubuntu,c=universe,b=amd64

# If you don’t see an output line like the one above, then enable the Universe repository with these instructions.
sudo apt install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository universe

# Now add the ROS 2 apt repository to your system. First authorize our GPG key with apt.
sudo apt update && sudo apt install curl gnupg lsb-release
sudo curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros/rosdistro/master/ros.key -o /usr/share/keyrings/ros-archive-keyring.gpg

# Then add the repository to your sources list.
echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/ros-archive-keyring.gpg] http://packages.ros.org/ros2/ubuntu $(source /etc/os-release && echo $UBUNTU_CODENAME) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ros2.list > /dev/null

# Update your apt repository caches after setting up the repositories.
sudo apt update

# Desktop Install
ros2_installation_type=desktop
sudo apt install ros-${rosdistro}-${ros2_installation_type}

# Environment setup
# (Optional) You can source ros2 in the ~/.bashrc file.
echo '' >> ~/.bashrc && echo "source /opt/ros/${rosdistro}/setup.bash" >> ~/.bashrc
```

Commit message:

feat: escape install task if the specific package is held
Signed-off-by: Naophis <nao1288stusj@gmail.com>

ansible/roles/ros2/README.md, after:

# ros2

This role installs [ROS 2](http://www.ros2.org/) following [this page](https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debians.html).

Additional steps may be needed depending on the `rosdistro` you choose.

To prevent the update of the ROS 2 packages, if ros-`distro`-desktop is held, the installation process for the packages will be skipped and output warining.

<!-- TODO: Add these steps to the role if Humble requires. -->

```bash
$ sudo apt install software-properties-common
$ sudo add-apt-repository universe
$ apt-cache policy | grep universe
 500 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu focal/universe amd64 Packages
     release v=20.04,o=Ubuntu,a=focal,n=focal,l=Ubuntu,c=universe,b=amd64
```

## Inputs

| Name                   | Required | Description                                      |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| rosdistro              | true     | The ROS distro.                                  |
| ros2_installation_type | false    | The installation type (`desktop` or `ros-base`). |

## Manual Installation

The `ros2_installation_type` variable can also be found in:
[./defaults/main.yaml](./defaults/main.yaml)

For Universe, the `rosdistro` variable can also be found in:
[../../playbooks/universe.yaml](../../playbooks/universe.yaml)

```bash
wget -O /tmp/amd64.env https://raw.githubusercontent.com/autowarefoundation/autoware/main/amd64.env && source /tmp/amd64.env

# Taken from: https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debians.html

# You will need to add the ROS 2 apt repository to your system. First, make sure that the Ubuntu Universe repository is enabled by checking the output of this command.
apt-cache policy | grep universe

# The output of the above command should contain following:

# 500 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu focal/universe amd64 Packages
#     release v=20.04,o=Ubuntu,a=focal,n=focal,l=Ubuntu,c=universe,b=amd64

# If you don’t see an output line like the one above, then enable the Universe repository with these instructions.
sudo apt install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository universe

# Now add the ROS 2 apt repository to your system. First authorize our GPG key with apt.
sudo apt update && sudo apt install curl gnupg lsb-release
sudo curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ros/rosdistro/master/ros.key -o /usr/share/keyrings/ros-archive-keyring.gpg

# Then add the repository to your sources list.
echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/ros-archive-keyring.gpg] http://packages.ros.org/ros2/ubuntu $(source /etc/os-release && echo $UBUNTU_CODENAME) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ros2.list > /dev/null

# Update your apt repository caches after setting up the repositories.
sudo apt update

# Desktop Install
ros2_installation_type=desktop
sudo apt install ros-${rosdistro}-${ros2_installation_type}

# Environment setup
# (Optional) You can source ros2 in the ~/.bashrc file.
echo '' >> ~/.bashrc && echo "source /opt/ros/${rosdistro}/setup.bash" >> ~/.bashrc
```
