control/operation_mode_transition_manager/README.md, before:

# operation_mode_transition_manager

## Purpose / Use cases

This module is responsible for managing the different modes of operation for the Autoware system. The possible modes are:

- `Autonomous`: the vehicle is fully controlled by the autonomous driving system
- `Local`: the vehicle is controlled by a physically connected control system such as a joy stick
- `Remote`: the vehicle is controlled by a remote controller
- `Stop`: the vehicle is stopped and there is no active control system.

There is also an `In Transition` state that occurs during each mode transitions. During this state, the transition to the new operator is not yet complete, and the previous operator is still responsible for controlling the system until the transition is complete. Some actions may be restricted during the `In Transition` state, such as sudden braking or steering. (This is restricted by the `vehicle_cmd_gate`).

### Features

- Transit mode between `Autonomous`, `Local`, `Remote` and `Stop` based on the indication command.
- Check whether the each transition is available (safe or not).
- Limit some sudden motion control in `In Transition` mode (this is done with `vehicle_cmd_gate` feature).
- Check whether the transition is completed.

- Transition between the `Autonomous`, `Local`, `Remote`, and `Stop` modes based on the indicated command.
- Determine whether each transition is safe to execute.
- Restrict certain sudden motion controls during the `In Transition` mode (using the `vehicle_cmd_gate` feature).
- Verify that the transition is complete.

## Design

<!-- ## Assumptions / Known limits -->

## Inputs / Outputs / API

### Inputs

For the mode transition:

- /system/operation_mode/change_autoware_control [`tier4_system_msgs/srv/ChangeAutowareControl`]: change operation mode to Autonomous
- /system/operation_mode/change_operation_mode [`tier4_system_msgs/srv/ChangeOperationMode`]: change operation mode

For the transition availability/completion check:

- /control/command/control_cmd [`autoware_auto_control_msgs/msg/AckermannControlCommand`]: vehicle control signal
- /localization/kinematic_state [`nav_msgs/msg/Odometry`]: ego vehicle state
- /planning/scenario_planning/trajectory [`autoware_auto_planning_msgs/msg/Trajectory`]: planning trajectory
- /vehicle/status/control_mode [`autoware_auto_vehicle_msgs/msg/ControlModeReport`]: vehicle control mode (autonomous/manual)
- /control/vehicle_cmd_gate/operation_mode [`autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/msg/OperationModeState`]: the operation mode in the `vehicle_cmd_gate`. (To be removed)

For the backward compatibility (to be removed):

- /api/autoware/get/engage [`autoware_auto_vehicle_msgs/msg/Engage`]
- /control/current_gate_mode [`tier4_control_msgs/msg/GateMode`]
- /control/external_cmd_selector/current_selector_mode [`tier4_control_msgs/msg/ExternalCommandSelectorMode`]

### Outputs

- /system/operation_mode/state [`autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/msg/OperationModeState`]: to inform the current operation mode
- /control/operation_mode_transition_manager/debug_info [`operation_mode_transition_manager/msg/OperationModeTransitionManagerDebug`]: detailed information about the operation mode transition

- /control/gate_mode_cmd [`tier4_control_msgs/msg/GateMode`]: to change the `vehicle_cmd_gate` state to use its features (to be removed)
- /autoware/engage [`autoware_auto_vehicle_msgs/msg/Engage`]:

- /control/control_mode_request [`autoware_auto_vehicle_msgs/srv/ControlModeCommand`]: to change the vehicle control mode (autonomous/manual)
- /control/external_cmd_selector/select_external_command [`tier4_control_msgs/srv/ExternalCommandSelect`]:

## Parameters

| Name                               | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Default value |
| :--------------------------------- | :------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------ |
| `transition_timeout`               | `double` | If the state transition is not completed within this time, it is considered a transition failure.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | 10.0          |
| `frequency_hz`                     | `double` | running hz                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 10.0          |
| `enable_engage_on_driving`         | `bool`   | Set true if you want to engage the autonomous driving mode while the vehicle is driving. If set to false, it will deny Engage in any situation where the vehicle speed is not zero. Note that if you use this feature without adjusting the parameters, it may cause issues like sudden deceleration. Before using, please ensure the engage condition and the vehicle_cmd_gate transition filter are appropriately adjusted. | 0.1           |
| `check_engage_condition`           | `bool`   | If false, autonomous transition is always available                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | 0.1           |
| `nearest_dist_deviation_threshold` | `double` | distance threshold used to find nearest trajectory point                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 3.0           |
| `nearest_yaw_deviation_threshold`  | `double` | angle threshold used to find nearest trajectory point                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | 1.57          |

For `engage_acceptable_limits` related parameters:

| Name                          | Type     | Description                                                                                                                   | Default value |
| :---------------------------- | :------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------ |
| `allow_autonomous_in_stopped` | `bool`   | If true, autonomous transition is available when the vehicle is stopped even if other checks fail.                            | true          |
| `dist_threshold`              | `double` | the distance between the trajectory and ego vehicle must be within this distance for `Autonomous` transition.                 | 1.5           |
| `yaw_threshold`               | `double` | the yaw angle between trajectory and ego vehicle must be within this threshold for `Autonomous` transition.                   | 0.524         |
| `speed_upper_threshold`       | `double` | the velocity deviation between control command and ego vehicle must be within this threshold for `Autonomous` transition.     | 10.0          |
| `speed_lower_threshold`       | `double` | the velocity deviation between the control command and ego vehicle must be within this threshold for `Autonomous` transition. | -10.0         |
| `acc_threshold`               | `double` | the control command acceleration must be less than this threshold for `Autonomous` transition.                                | 1.5           |
| `lateral_acc_threshold`       | `double` | the control command lateral acceleration must be less than this threshold for `Autonomous` transition.                        | 1.0           |
| `lateral_acc_diff_threshold`  | `double` | the lateral acceleration deviation between the control command must be less than this threshold for `Autonomous` transition.  | 0.5           |

For `stable_check` related parameters:

| Name                    | Type     | Description                                                                                                                       | Default value |
| :---------------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------ |
| `duration`              | `double` | the stable condition must be satisfied for this duration to complete the transition.                                              | 0.1           |
| `dist_threshold`        | `double` | the distance between the trajectory and ego vehicle must be within this distance to complete `Autonomous` transition.             | 1.5           |
| `yaw_threshold`         | `double` | the yaw angle between trajectory and ego vehicle must be within this threshold to complete `Autonomous` transition.               | 0.262         |
| `speed_upper_threshold` | `double` | the velocity deviation between control command and ego vehicle must be within this threshold to complete `Autonomous` transition. | 2.0           |
| `speed_lower_threshold` | `double` | the velocity deviation between control command and ego vehicle must be within this threshold to complete `Autonomous` transition. | 2.0           |

## Engage check behavior on each parameter setting

This matrix describes the scenarios in which the vehicle can be engaged based on the combinations of parameter settings:

| `enable_engage_on_driving` | `check_engage_condition` | `allow_autonomous_in_stopped` | Scenarios where engage is permitted                               |
| :------------------------: | :----------------------: | :---------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------- |
|             x              |            x             |               x               | Only when the vehicle is stationary.                              |
|             x              |            x             |               o               | Only when the vehicle is stationary.                              |
|             x              |            o             |               x               | When the vehicle is stationary and all engage conditions are met. |
|             x              |            o             |               o               | Only when the vehicle is stationary.                              |
|             o              |            x             |               x               | At any time (Caution: Not recommended).                           |
|             o              |            x             |               o               | At any time (Caution: Not recommended).                           |
|             o              |            o             |               x               | When all engage conditions are met, regardless of vehicle status. |
|             o              |            o             |               o               | When all engage conditions are met or the vehicle is stationary.  |

## Future extensions / Unimplemented parts

- Need to remove backward compatibility interfaces.
- This node should be merged to the `vehicle_cmd_gate` due to its strong connection.

Commit message:

docs(operation_transition_manager): update readme (#4888)
* docs(operation_transition_manager): update readme

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

* precommit

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Takamasa Horibe <horibe.takamasa@gmail.com>

control/operation_mode_transition_manager/README.md, after:

# operation_mode_transition_manager

## Purpose / Use cases

This module is responsible for managing the different modes of operation for the Autoware system. The possible modes are:

- `Autonomous`: the vehicle is fully controlled by the autonomous driving system
- `Local`: the vehicle is controlled by a physically connected control system such as a joy stick
- `Remote`: the vehicle is controlled by a remote controller
- `Stop`: the vehicle is stopped and there is no active control system.

There is also an `In Transition` state that occurs during each mode transitions. During this state, the transition to the new operator is not yet complete, and the previous operator is still responsible for controlling the system until the transition is complete. Some actions may be restricted during the `In Transition` state, such as sudden braking or steering. (This is restricted by the `vehicle_cmd_gate`).

### Features

- Transit mode between `Autonomous`, `Local`, `Remote` and `Stop` based on the indication command.
- Check whether the each transition is available (safe or not).
- Limit some sudden motion control in `In Transition` mode (this is done with `vehicle_cmd_gate` feature).
- Check whether the transition is completed.

- Transition between the `Autonomous`, `Local`, `Remote`, and `Stop` modes based on the indicated command.
- Determine whether each transition is safe to execute.
- Restrict certain sudden motion controls during the `In Transition` mode (using the `vehicle_cmd_gate` feature).
- Verify that the transition is complete.

## Design

A rough design of the relationship between `operation_mode_transition_manager`` and the other nodes is shown below.

![transition_rough_structure](image/transition_rough_structure.drawio.svg)

A more detailed structure is below.

![transition_detailed_structure](image/transition_detailed_structure.drawio.svg)

Here we see that `operation_mode_transition_manager` has multiple state transitions as follows

- **AUTOWARE ENABLED <---> DISABLED**
  - **ENABLED**: the vehicle is controlled by Autoware.
  - **DISABLED**: the vehicle is out of Autoware control, expecting the e.g. manual driving.
- **AUTOWARE ENABLED <---> AUTO/LOCAL/REMOTE/NONE**
  - **AUTO**: the vehicle is controlled by Autoware, with the autonomous control command calculated by the planning/control component.
  - **LOCAL**: the vehicle is controlled by Autoware, with the locally connected operator, e.g. joystick controller.
  - **REMOTE**: the vehicle is controlled by Autoware, with the remotely connected operator.
  - **NONE**: the vehicle is not controlled by any operator.
- **IN TRANSITION <---> COMPLETED**
  - **IN TRANSITION**: the mode listed above is in the transition process, expecting the former operator to have a responsibility to confirm the transition is completed.
  - **COMPLETED**: the mode transition is completed.

## Inputs / Outputs / API

### Inputs

For the mode transition:

- /system/operation_mode/change_autoware_control [`tier4_system_msgs/srv/ChangeAutowareControl`]: change operation mode to Autonomous
- /system/operation_mode/change_operation_mode [`tier4_system_msgs/srv/ChangeOperationMode`]: change operation mode

For the transition availability/completion check:

- /control/command/control_cmd [`autoware_auto_control_msgs/msg/AckermannControlCommand`]: vehicle control signal
- /localization/kinematic_state [`nav_msgs/msg/Odometry`]: ego vehicle state
- /planning/scenario_planning/trajectory [`autoware_auto_planning_msgs/msg/Trajectory`]: planning trajectory
- /vehicle/status/control_mode [`autoware_auto_vehicle_msgs/msg/ControlModeReport`]: vehicle control mode (autonomous/manual)
- /control/vehicle_cmd_gate/operation_mode [`autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/msg/OperationModeState`]: the operation mode in the `vehicle_cmd_gate`. (To be removed)

For the backward compatibility (to be removed):

- /api/autoware/get/engage [`autoware_auto_vehicle_msgs/msg/Engage`]
- /control/current_gate_mode [`tier4_control_msgs/msg/GateMode`]
- /control/external_cmd_selector/current_selector_mode [`tier4_control_msgs/msg/ExternalCommandSelectorMode`]

### Outputs

- /system/operation_mode/state [`autoware_adapi_v1_msgs/msg/OperationModeState`]: to inform the current operation mode
- /control/operation_mode_transition_manager/debug_info [`operation_mode_transition_manager/msg/OperationModeTransitionManagerDebug`]: detailed information about the operation mode transition

- /control/gate_mode_cmd [`tier4_control_msgs/msg/GateMode`]: to change the `vehicle_cmd_gate` state to use its features (to be removed)
- /autoware/engage [`autoware_auto_vehicle_msgs/msg/Engage`]:

- /control/control_mode_request [`autoware_auto_vehicle_msgs/srv/ControlModeCommand`]: to change the vehicle control mode (autonomous/manual)
- /control/external_cmd_selector/select_external_command [`tier4_control_msgs/srv/ExternalCommandSelect`]:

## Parameters

| Name                               | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Default value |
| :--------------------------------- | :------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------ |
| `transition_timeout`               | `double` | If the state transition is not completed within this time, it is considered a transition failure.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | 10.0          |
| `frequency_hz`                     | `double` | running hz                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 10.0          |
| `enable_engage_on_driving`         | `bool`   | Set true if you want to engage the autonomous driving mode while the vehicle is driving. If set to false, it will deny Engage in any situation where the vehicle speed is not zero. Note that if you use this feature without adjusting the parameters, it may cause issues like sudden deceleration. Before using, please ensure the engage condition and the vehicle_cmd_gate transition filter are appropriately adjusted. | 0.1           |
| `check_engage_condition`           | `bool`   | If false, autonomous transition is always available                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | 0.1           |
| `nearest_dist_deviation_threshold` | `double` | distance threshold used to find nearest trajectory point                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 3.0           |
| `nearest_yaw_deviation_threshold`  | `double` | angle threshold used to find nearest trajectory point                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | 1.57          |

For `engage_acceptable_limits` related parameters:

| Name                          | Type     | Description                                                                                                                   | Default value |
| :---------------------------- | :------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------ |
| `allow_autonomous_in_stopped` | `bool`   | If true, autonomous transition is available when the vehicle is stopped even if other checks fail.                            | true          |
| `dist_threshold`              | `double` | the distance between the trajectory and ego vehicle must be within this distance for `Autonomous` transition.                 | 1.5           |
| `yaw_threshold`               | `double` | the yaw angle between trajectory and ego vehicle must be within this threshold for `Autonomous` transition.                   | 0.524         |
| `speed_upper_threshold`       | `double` | the velocity deviation between control command and ego vehicle must be within this threshold for `Autonomous` transition.     | 10.0          |
| `speed_lower_threshold`       | `double` | the velocity deviation between the control command and ego vehicle must be within this threshold for `Autonomous` transition. | -10.0         |
| `acc_threshold`               | `double` | the control command acceleration must be less than this threshold for `Autonomous` transition.                                | 1.5           |
| `lateral_acc_threshold`       | `double` | the control command lateral acceleration must be less than this threshold for `Autonomous` transition.                        | 1.0           |
| `lateral_acc_diff_threshold`  | `double` | the lateral acceleration deviation between the control command must be less than this threshold for `Autonomous` transition.  | 0.5           |

For `stable_check` related parameters:

| Name                    | Type     | Description                                                                                                                       | Default value |
| :---------------------- | :------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------ |
| `duration`              | `double` | the stable condition must be satisfied for this duration to complete the transition.                                              | 0.1           |
| `dist_threshold`        | `double` | the distance between the trajectory and ego vehicle must be within this distance to complete `Autonomous` transition.             | 1.5           |
| `yaw_threshold`         | `double` | the yaw angle between trajectory and ego vehicle must be within this threshold to complete `Autonomous` transition.               | 0.262         |
| `speed_upper_threshold` | `double` | the velocity deviation between control command and ego vehicle must be within this threshold to complete `Autonomous` transition. | 2.0           |
| `speed_lower_threshold` | `double` | the velocity deviation between control command and ego vehicle must be within this threshold to complete `Autonomous` transition. | 2.0           |

## Engage check behavior on each parameter setting

This matrix describes the scenarios in which the vehicle can be engaged based on the combinations of parameter settings:

| `enable_engage_on_driving` | `check_engage_condition` | `allow_autonomous_in_stopped` | Scenarios where engage is permitted                               |
| :------------------------: | :----------------------: | :---------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------- |
|             x              |            x             |               x               | Only when the vehicle is stationary.                              |
|             x              |            x             |               o               | Only when the vehicle is stationary.                              |
|             x              |            o             |               x               | When the vehicle is stationary and all engage conditions are met. |
|             x              |            o             |               o               | Only when the vehicle is stationary.                              |
|             o              |            x             |               x               | At any time (Caution: Not recommended).                           |
|             o              |            x             |               o               | At any time (Caution: Not recommended).                           |
|             o              |            o             |               x               | When all engage conditions are met, regardless of vehicle status. |
|             o              |            o             |               o               | When all engage conditions are met or the vehicle is stationary.  |

## Future extensions / Unimplemented parts

- Need to remove backward compatibility interfaces.
- This node should be merged to the `vehicle_cmd_gate` due to its strong connection.
