docker/README.md, before:

# Open AD Kit: containerized workloads for Autoware

[Open AD Kit](https://autoware.org/open-ad-kit/) offers containers for Autoware to simplify the development and deployment of Autoware and its dependencies. This directory contains scripts to build and run the containers.

Detailed instructions on how to use the containers can be found in the [Open AD Kit documentation](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/installation/autoware/docker-installation/).

## Development containers

When using Open AD Kit as a development container, it is easy to use Autoware's all-in-one development container image, `ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-devel-cuda`.
If you do not need the CUDA drivers, you can also use the smaller image `ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-devel`.

```shell
$ git clone git@github.com:autowarefoundation/autoware.git
$ cd autoware
$ vcs import src < autoware.repos
$ docker run -it --rm \
  –v $PWD/src/universe/autoware.universe/XXX/autoware_YYY:/autoware/src/autoware_YYY \
  ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-devel-cuda
$ colcon build --mixin debug compile-commands
$ source install/setup.bash
$ ros2 run --prefix "gdb -ex run --args" autoware_YYY ZZZ
```

For example, if you want to make modifications to [`autoware.universe/perception/autoware_bytetrack`](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware.universe/tree/main/perception/autoware_bytetrack), you can execute the following commands to perform the volume mount and debug build and execution of only the `autoware_bytetrack`.

Note that `gdb` is not currently installed in the development containers, but it would be installed in the near future.

```shell
$ docker run -it --rm \
  -v $PWD/src/universe/autoware.universe/perception/autoware_bytetrack:/autoware/src/autoware_bytetrack \
  ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-devel-cuda
$ root@a566e785c4d2:/autoware# colcon build --mixin debug compile-commands
Starting >>> autoware_bytetrack
[Processing: autoware_bytetrack]
Finished <<< autoware_bytetrack [37.9s]

Summary: 1 package finished [38.1s]
$ root@a566e785c4d2:/autoware# source install/setup.bash
$ root@a566e785c4d2:/autoware# apt update && apt install gdb
$ root@a566e785c4d2:/autoware# ros2 run --prefix "gdb -ex run --args" autoware_bytetrack bytetrack_node_exe
GNU gdb (Ubuntu 12.1-0ubuntu1~22.04.2) 12.1
...
[Thread debugging using libthread_db enabled]
...
[New Thread 0x7ff6f3fff640 (LWP 1205)]
Init ByteTrack!
```

## Runtime containers

In the execution container, there is the all-in-one runtime container for Autoware, `ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-cuda`, and the multi-containerized `ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-***-cuda` for each component of Autoware Universe.

The all-in-one execution container also has the autoware_launch package installed, allowing it to be started in the same way as a locally built Autoware.

```shell
git clone git@github.com:autowarefoundation/autoware.git
cd autoware
docker run -it --rm ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-cuda
ros2 launch autoware_launch planning_simulator.launch.xml map_path:=...
```

For example, if you want to run the runtime container that only includes the `sensing/perception` components, you can execute it as follows.

```shell
docker run -it --rm ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-sensing-perception-cuda
ros2 launch autoware_pointcloud_preprocessor preprocessor.launch.xml
```

## Multi-stage Dockerfile structure

![](./Dockerfile.svg)

The suffix `-devel` (e.g. `universe-devel`) is intended for use as a [development container](https://containers.dev). On the other hand, those without the `-devel` suffix (e.g. `universe`) are intended to be used as a runtime container.

### `$BASE_IMAGE`

This is a base image of this Dockerfile. [`ros:humble-ros-base-jammy`](https://hub.docker.com/_/ros/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=humble-ros-base-jammy) will be given.

### `base` (from Dockerfile.base)

This stage performs only the basic setup required for all Autoware images.

### `base-cuda` (from Dockerfile.base)

This stage is built on top of `base` and adds the CUDA runtime environment and artifacts.

### `rosdep-depend`

The ROS dependency package list files will be generated.
These files will be used in the subsequent stages:

- `core-devel`
- `universe-common`
- `universe-COMPONENT-devel` (e.g. `universe-sensing-perception-devel`)
- `universe-COMPONENT` (e.g. `universe-sensing-perception`)
- `universe-devel`
- `universe`

By generating only the package list files and copying them to the subsequent stages, the dependency packages will not be reinstalled during the container build process unless the dependency packages change.

### `core-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-core-depend-packages.txt` and builds the packages under the `core` directory of `autoware.repos`.

### `universe-common-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-common-depend-packages.txt` and builds the packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/external`
- `universe/autoware.universe/common`

### `universe-common-devel-cuda`

This stage is build on top of `universe-common-devel` and installs the CUDA development environment.

### `universe-sensing-perception-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-sensing-perception-depend-packages.txt` and builds the non-CUDA related packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/autoware.universe/perception`
- `universe/autoware.universe/sensing`

### `universe-sensing-perception-devel-cuda`

This stage copies the non-CUDA related binaries built in the `universe-sensing-perception-devel` stage and builds the CUDA related packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/autoware.universe/perception`
- `universe/autoware.universe/sensing`

### `universe-sensing-perception`

This stage is an Autoware Universe Sensing/Perception runtime container. It only includes the dependencies given by `/rosdep-universe-sensing-perception-exec-depend-packages.txt` and the binaries built in the `universe-sensing-perception-devel` stage.

### `universe-sensing-perception-cuda`

This stage installs the CUDA runtime environment and copies the binaries built in the `universe-sensing-perception-devel-cuda` stage.

### `universe-localization-mapping-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-localization-mapping-depend-packages.txt` and builds the packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/autoware.universe/localization`
- `universe/autoware.universe/map`

### `universe-localization-mapping`

This stage is an Autoware Universe Localization/Mapping runtime container. It only includes the dependencies given by `/rosdep-universe-localization-mapping-exec-depend-packages.txt` and the binaries built in the `universe-localization-mapping-devel` stage.

### `universe-planning-control-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-planning-control-depend-packages.txt` and builds the packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/autoware.universe/control`
- `universe/autoware.universe/planning`

### `universe-planning-control`

This stage is an Autoware Universe Planning/Control runtime container. It only includes the dependencies given by `/rosdep-universe-planning-control-exec-depend-packages.txt` and the binaries built in the `universe-planning-control-devel` stage.

### `universe-vehicle-system-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-vehicle-system-depend-packages.txt` and builds the packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/autoware.universe/vehicle`
- `universe/autoware.universe/system`

### `universe-vehicle-system`

This stage is an Autoware Universe Vehicle/System runtime container. It only includes the dependencies given by `/rosdep-universe-vehicle-system-exec-depend-packages.txt` and the binaries built in the `universe-vehicle-system-devel` stage.

### `universe-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-depend-packages.txt` and copies the binaries built in the following stages:

- `universe-sensing-perception-devel`
- `universe-localization-mapping-devel`
- `universe-planning-control-devel`
- `universe-vehicle-system-devel`

Then it builds the remaining packages of `autoware.repos`:

- `launcher`
- `param`
- `sensor_component`
- `sensor_kit`
- `universe/autoware.universe/evaluator`
- `universe/autoware.universe/launch`
- `universe/autoware.universe/simulator`
- `universe/autoware.universe/tools`
- `vehicle`

This stage provides an all-in-one development container to Autoware developers. By running the host's source code with volume mounting, it allows for easy building and debugging of Autoware.

### `universe-devel-cuda`

This stage installs the CUDA development environment and copies the binaries built in the `universe-sensing-perception-devel-cuda` stage to the `universe-devel` stage.

### `universe`

This stage is an Autoware Universe runtime container. It only includes the dependencies given by `/rosdep-exec-depend-packages.txt` and the binaries built in the `universe-devel` stage.

### `universe-cuda`

This stage installs the CUDA runtime environment and copies the binaries built in the `universe-devel-cuda` stage.

Commit message:

refactor: added Docker image for visualization plugins (#5460)
* refactor: added Docker image for visualization plugins

Signed-off-by: Esteve Fernandez <esteve.fernandez@tier4.jp>

* added visualization section

Signed-off-by: Esteve Fernandez <esteve.fernandez@tier4.jp>

* update README.md

Signed-off-by: Esteve Fernandez <esteve.fernandez@tier4.jp>

* update README.md

Signed-off-by: Esteve Fernandez <esteve.fernandez@tier4.jp>

* added stages for visualization image

Signed-off-by: Esteve Fernandez <esteve.fernandez@tier4.jp>

* fix dependency generation

Signed-off-by: Esteve Fernandez <esteve.fernandez@tier4.jp>

* added target option

Signed-off-by: Esteve Fernandez <esteve.fernandez@tier4.jp>

* remove suffix and explicit visualization build

Signed-off-by: Esteve Fernandez <esteve.fernandez@tier4.jp>

* added tags for all targets

Signed-off-by: Esteve Fernandez <esteve.fernandez@tier4.jp>

* added COPY statement for universe-visualization-devel

Signed-off-by: Esteve Fernandez <esteve.fernandez@tier4.jp>

---------

Signed-off-by: Esteve Fernandez <esteve.fernandez@tier4.jp>

docker/README.md, after:

# Open AD Kit: containerized workloads for Autoware

[Open AD Kit](https://autoware.org/open-ad-kit/) offers containers for Autoware to simplify the development and deployment of Autoware and its dependencies. This directory contains scripts to build and run the containers.

Detailed instructions on how to use the containers can be found in the [Open AD Kit documentation](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/installation/autoware/docker-installation/).

## Development containers

When using Open AD Kit as a development container, it is easy to use Autoware's all-in-one development container image, `ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-devel-cuda`.
If you do not need the CUDA drivers, you can also use the smaller image `ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-devel`.

```shell
$ git clone git@github.com:autowarefoundation/autoware.git
$ cd autoware
$ vcs import src < autoware.repos
$ docker run -it --rm \
  –v $PWD/src/universe/autoware.universe/XXX/autoware_YYY:/autoware/src/autoware_YYY \
  ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-devel-cuda
$ colcon build --mixin debug compile-commands
$ source install/setup.bash
$ ros2 run --prefix "gdb -ex run --args" autoware_YYY ZZZ
```

For example, if you want to make modifications to [`autoware.universe/perception/autoware_bytetrack`](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware.universe/tree/main/perception/autoware_bytetrack), you can execute the following commands to perform the volume mount and debug build and execution of only the `autoware_bytetrack`.

Note that `gdb` is not currently installed in the development containers, but it would be installed in the near future.

```shell
$ docker run -it --rm \
  -v $PWD/src/universe/autoware.universe/perception/autoware_bytetrack:/autoware/src/autoware_bytetrack \
  ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-devel-cuda
$ root@a566e785c4d2:/autoware# colcon build --mixin debug compile-commands
Starting >>> autoware_bytetrack
[Processing: autoware_bytetrack]
Finished <<< autoware_bytetrack [37.9s]

Summary: 1 package finished [38.1s]
$ root@a566e785c4d2:/autoware# source install/setup.bash
$ root@a566e785c4d2:/autoware# apt update && apt install gdb
$ root@a566e785c4d2:/autoware# ros2 run --prefix "gdb -ex run --args" autoware_bytetrack bytetrack_node_exe
GNU gdb (Ubuntu 12.1-0ubuntu1~22.04.2) 12.1
...
[Thread debugging using libthread_db enabled]
...
[New Thread 0x7ff6f3fff640 (LWP 1205)]
Init ByteTrack!
```

## Runtime containers

In the execution container, there is the all-in-one runtime container for Autoware, `ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-cuda`, and the multi-containerized `ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-***-cuda` for each component of Autoware Universe.

The all-in-one execution container also has the autoware_launch package installed, allowing it to be started in the same way as a locally built Autoware.

```shell
git clone git@github.com:autowarefoundation/autoware.git
cd autoware
docker run -it --rm ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-cuda
ros2 launch autoware_launch planning_simulator.launch.xml map_path:=...
```

For example, if you want to run the runtime container that only includes the `sensing/perception` components, you can execute it as follows.

```shell
docker run -it --rm ghcr.io/autowarefoundation/autoware:universe-sensing-perception-cuda
ros2 launch autoware_pointcloud_preprocessor preprocessor.launch.xml
```

## Multi-stage Dockerfile structure

![](./Dockerfile.svg)

The suffix `-devel` (e.g. `universe-devel`) is intended for use as a [development container](https://containers.dev). On the other hand, those without the `-devel` suffix (e.g. `universe`) are intended to be used as a runtime container.

### `$BASE_IMAGE`

This is a base image of this Dockerfile. [`ros:humble-ros-base-jammy`](https://hub.docker.com/_/ros/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=humble-ros-base-jammy) will be given.

### `base` (from Dockerfile.base)

This stage performs only the basic setup required for all Autoware images.

### `base-cuda` (from Dockerfile.base)

This stage is built on top of `base` and adds the CUDA runtime environment and artifacts.

### `rosdep-depend`

The ROS dependency package list files will be generated.
These files will be used in the subsequent stages:

- `core-devel`
- `universe-common`
- `universe-COMPONENT-devel` (e.g. `universe-sensing-perception-devel`)
- `universe-COMPONENT` (e.g. `universe-sensing-perception`)
- `universe-devel`
- `universe`

By generating only the package list files and copying them to the subsequent stages, the dependency packages will not be reinstalled during the container build process unless the dependency packages change.

### `core-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-core-depend-packages.txt` and builds the packages under the `core` directory of `autoware.repos`.

### `universe-common-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-common-depend-packages.txt` and builds the packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/external`
- `universe/autoware.universe/common`

### `universe-common-devel-cuda`

This stage is build on top of `universe-common-devel` and installs the CUDA development environment.

### `universe-sensing-perception-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-sensing-perception-depend-packages.txt` and builds the non-CUDA related packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/autoware.universe/perception`
- `universe/autoware.universe/sensing`

### `universe-sensing-perception-devel-cuda`

This stage copies the non-CUDA related binaries built in the `universe-sensing-perception-devel` stage and builds the CUDA related packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/autoware.universe/perception`
- `universe/autoware.universe/sensing`

### `universe-sensing-perception`

This stage is an Autoware Universe Sensing/Perception runtime container. It only includes the dependencies given by `/rosdep-universe-sensing-perception-exec-depend-packages.txt` and the binaries built in the `universe-sensing-perception-devel` stage.

### `universe-sensing-perception-cuda`

This stage installs the CUDA runtime environment and copies the binaries built in the `universe-sensing-perception-devel-cuda` stage.

### `universe-visualization`

This stage is a Autoware Universe Visualization runtime container. It only includes the dependencies given by `/rosdep-universe-visualization-exec-depend-packages.txt` and the binaries built in the `universe-visualization-devel` stage.

### `universe-localization-mapping-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-localization-mapping-depend-packages.txt` and builds the packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/autoware.universe/localization`
- `universe/autoware.universe/map`

### `universe-localization-mapping`

This stage is an Autoware Universe Localization/Mapping runtime container. It only includes the dependencies given by `/rosdep-universe-localization-mapping-exec-depend-packages.txt` and the binaries built in the `universe-localization-mapping-devel` stage.

### `universe-planning-control-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-planning-control-depend-packages.txt` and builds the packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/autoware.universe/control`
- `universe/autoware.universe/planning`

### `universe-planning-control`

This stage is an Autoware Universe Planning/Control runtime container. It only includes the dependencies given by `/rosdep-universe-planning-control-exec-depend-packages.txt` and the binaries built in the `universe-planning-control-devel` stage.

### `universe-vehicle-system-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-vehicle-system-depend-packages.txt` and builds the packages under the following directories of `autoware.repos`:

- `universe/autoware.universe/vehicle`
- `universe/autoware.universe/system`

### `universe-vehicle-system`

This stage is an Autoware Universe Vehicle/System runtime container. It only includes the dependencies given by `/rosdep-universe-vehicle-system-exec-depend-packages.txt` and the binaries built in the `universe-vehicle-system-devel` stage.

### `universe-devel`

This stage installs the dependency packages based on `/rosdep-universe-depend-packages.txt` and copies the binaries built in the following stages:

- `universe-sensing-perception-devel`
- `universe-localization-mapping-devel`
- `universe-planning-control-devel`
- `universe-vehicle-system-devel`

Then it builds the remaining packages of `autoware.repos`:

- `launcher`
- `param`
- `sensor_component`
- `sensor_kit`
- `universe/autoware.universe/evaluator`
- `universe/autoware.universe/launch`
- `universe/autoware.universe/simulator`
- `universe/autoware.universe/tools`
- `universe/autoware.universe/visualization`
- `vehicle`

This stage provides an all-in-one development container to Autoware developers. By running the host's source code with volume mounting, it allows for easy building and debugging of Autoware.

### `universe-devel-cuda`

This stage installs the CUDA development environment and copies the binaries built in the `universe-sensing-perception-devel-cuda` stage to the `universe-devel` stage.

### `universe`

This stage is an Autoware Universe runtime container. It only includes the dependencies given by `/rosdep-exec-depend-packages.txt` and the binaries built in the `universe-devel` stage.

### `universe-cuda`

This stage installs the CUDA runtime environment and copies the binaries built in the `universe-devel-cuda` stage.
