perception/radar_object_tracker/README.md, before:

# Radar Object Tracker

## Purpose

This package provides a radar object tracking node that processes sequences of detected objects to assign consistent identities to them and estimate their velocities.

## Inner-workings / Algorithms

This radar object tracker is a combination of data association and tracking algorithms.

<!-- In the future, you can add an overview image here -->
<!-- ![radar_object_tracker_overview](image/radar_object_tracker_overview.svg) -->

### Data Association

The data association algorithm matches detected objects to existing tracks.

### Tracker Models

The tracker models used in this package vary based on the class of the detected object.
See more details in the [models.md](models.md).

<!-- In the future, you can add flowcharts, state transitions, and other details about how this package works. -->

## Inputs / Outputs

### Input

| Name      | Type                                                  | Description      |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| `~/input` | `autoware_auto_perception_msgs::msg::DetectedObjects` | Detected objects |

### Output

| Name       | Type                                                 | Description     |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `~/output` | `autoware_auto_perception_msgs::msg::TrackedObjects` | Tracked objects |

## Parameters

### Node Parameters

| Name                        | Type   | Default Value                 | Description                                                 |
| --------------------------- | ------ | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `publish_rate`              | double | 30.0                          | The rate at which to publish the output messages            |
| `world_frame_id`            | string | "world"                       | The frame ID of the world coordinate system                 |
| `enable_delay_compensation` | bool   | false                         | Whether to enable delay compensation                        |
| `tracking_config_directory` | string | ""                            | The directory containing the tracking configuration files   |
| `enable_logging`            | bool   | false                         | Whether to enable logging                                   |
| `logging_file_path`         | string | "~/.ros/association_log.json" | The path to the file where logs should be written           |
| `can_assign_matrix`         | array  |                               | An array of integers used in the data association algorithm |
| `max_dist_matrix`           | array  |                               | An array of doubles used in the data association algorithm  |
| `max_area_matrix`           | array  |                               | An array of doubles used in the data association algorithm  |
| `min_area_matrix`           | array  |                               | An array of doubles used in the data association algorithm  |
| `max_rad_matrix`            | array  |                               | An array of doubles used in the data association algorithm  |
| `min_iou_matrix`            | array  |                               | An array of doubles used in the data association algorithm  |

## Assumptions / Known limits

<!-- In the future, you can add assumptions and known limitations of this package. -->

## (Optional) Error detection and handling

<!-- In the future, you can add details about how this package detects and handles errors. -->

## (Optional) Performance characterization

<!-- In the future, you can add details about the performance of this package. -->

## (Optional) References/External links

<!-- In the future, you can add references and links to external code used in this package. -->

## (Optional) Future extensions / Unimplemented parts

<!-- In the future, you can add details about planned extensions or unimplemented parts of this package. -->

Commit message:

feat(radar_object_tracker): add distance and lanelet map based noise filtering for radar tracking (#4935)
* refactor: put node parameter to config yaml file

Signed-off-by: yoshiri <yoshiyoshidetteiu@gmail.com>

* use lane information and distance information to filter outliers

Signed-off-by: yoshiri <yoshiyoshidetteiu@gmail.com>

* enable to tune tracker lifetime

Signed-off-by: yoshiri <yoshiyoshidetteiu@gmail.com>

* update readme documents

Signed-off-by: yoshiri <yoshiyoshidetteiu@gmail.com>

* brushup model information and fix typo

Signed-off-by: yoshiri <yoshiyoshidetteiu@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: yoshiri <yoshiyoshidetteiu@gmail.com>

perception/radar_object_tracker/README.md, after:

# Radar Object Tracker

## Purpose

This package provides a radar object tracking node that processes sequences of detected objects to assign consistent identities to them and estimate their velocities.

## Inner-workings / Algorithms

This radar object tracker is a combination of data association and tracking algorithms.

<!-- In the future, you can add an overview image here -->
<!-- ![radar_object_tracker_overview](image/radar_object_tracker_overview.svg) -->

### Data Association

The data association algorithm matches detected objects to existing tracks.

### Tracker Models

The tracker models used in this package vary based on the class of the detected object.
See more details in the [models.md](models.md).

<!-- In the future, you can add flowcharts, state transitions, and other details about how this package works. -->

## Inputs / Outputs

### Input

| Name          | Type                                                  | Description      |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| `~/input`     | `autoware_auto_perception_msgs::msg::DetectedObjects` | Detected objects |
| `/vector/map` | `autoware_auto_msgs::msg::HADMapBin`                  | Map data         |

### Output

| Name       | Type                                                 | Description     |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `~/output` | `autoware_auto_perception_msgs::msg::TrackedObjects` | Tracked objects |

## Parameters

### Node Parameters

| Name                                 | Type   | Default Value               | Description                                                                                                     |
| ------------------------------------ | ------ | --------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `publish_rate`                       | double | 10.0                        | The rate at which to publish the output messages                                                                |
| `world_frame_id`                     | string | "map"                       | The frame ID of the world coordinate system                                                                     |
| `enable_delay_compensation`          | bool   | false                       | Whether to enable delay compensation. If set to `true`, output topic is published by timer with `publish_rate`. |
| `tracking_config_directory`          | string | ""                          | The directory containing the tracking configuration files                                                       |
| `enable_logging`                     | bool   | false                       | Whether to enable logging                                                                                       |
| `logging_file_path`                  | string | "/tmp/association_log.json" | The path to the file where logs should be written                                                               |
| `tracker_lifetime`                   | double | 1.0                         | The lifetime of the tracker in seconds                                                                          |
| `use_distance_based_noise_filtering` | bool   | true                        | Whether to use distance based filtering                                                                         |
| `minimum_range_threshold`            | double | 70.0                        | Minimum distance threshold for filtering in meters                                                              |
| `use_map_based_noise_filtering`      | bool   | true                        | Whether to use map based filtering                                                                              |
| `max_distance_from_lane`             | double | 5.0                         | Maximum distance from lane for filtering in meters                                                              |
| `max_angle_diff_from_lane`           | double | 0.785398                    | Maximum angle difference from lane for filtering in radians                                                     |
| `max_lateral_velocity`               | double | 5.0                         | Maximum lateral velocity for filtering in m/s                                                                   |
| `can_assign_matrix`                  | array  |                             | An array of integers used in the data association algorithm                                                     |
| `max_dist_matrix`                    | array  |                             | An array of doubles used in the data association algorithm                                                      |
| `max_area_matrix`                    | array  |                             | An array of doubles used in the data association algorithm                                                      |
| `min_area_matrix`                    | array  |                             | An array of doubles used in the data association algorithm                                                      |
| `max_rad_matrix`                     | array  |                             | An array of doubles used in the data association algorithm                                                      |
| `min_iou_matrix`                     | array  |                             | An array of doubles used in the data association algorithm                                                      |

See more details in the [models.md](models.md).

## Assumptions / Known limits

<!-- In the future, you can add assumptions and known limitations of this package. -->

## (Optional) Error detection and handling

<!-- In the future, you can add details about how this package detects and handles errors. -->

## (Optional) Performance characterization

<!-- In the future, you can add details about the performance of this package. -->

## (Optional) References/External links

<!-- In the future, you can add references and links to external code used in this package. -->

## (Optional) Future extensions / Unimplemented parts

<!-- In the future, you can add details about planned extensions or unimplemented parts of this package. -->
