perception/bytetrack/README.md, before:

# bytetrack

## Purpose

The core algorithm, named `ByteTrack`, mainly aims to perform multi-object tracking.
Because the algorithm associates almost every detection box including ones with low detection scores,
the number of false negatives is expected to decrease by using it.

[demo video](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3022416/225920856-745a3bb7-6b35-403d-87b0-6e5085952d70.mp4)

## Inner-workings / Algorithms

### Cite

<!-- cspell: ignore Yifu Peize Jiang Dongdong Fucheng Weng Zehuan Xinggang -->

- Yifu Zhang, Peize Sun, Yi Jiang, Dongdong Yu, Fucheng Weng, Zehuan Yuan, Ping Luo, Wenyu Liu, and Xinggang Wang,
  "ByteTrack: Multi-Object Tracking by Associating Every Detection Box", in the proc. of the ECCV
  2022, [[ref](https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.06864)]
- This package is ported version toward Autoware from [this repository](https://github.com/ifzhang/ByteTrack/tree/main/deploy/TensorRT/cpp)
  (The C++ implementation by the ByteTrack's authors)

## Inputs / Outputs

### bytetrack_node

#### Input

| Name      | Type                                               | Description                                 |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `in/rect` | `tier4_perception_msgs/DetectedObjectsWithFeature` | The detected objects with 2D bounding boxes |

#### Output

| Name                     | Type                                               | Description                                               |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `out/objects`            | `tier4_perception_msgs/DetectedObjectsWithFeature` | The detected objects with 2D bounding boxes               |
| `out/objects/debug/uuid` | `tier4_perception_msgs/DynamicObjectArray`         | The universally unique identifiers (UUID) for each object |

### bytetrack_visualizer

#### Input

| Name       | Type                                                 | Description                                               |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `in/image` | `sensor_msgs/Image` or `sensor_msgs/CompressedImage` | The input image on which object detection is performed    |
| `in/rect`  | `tier4_perception_msgs/DetectedObjectsWithFeature`   | The detected objects with 2D bounding boxes               |
| `in/uuid`  | `tier4_perception_msgs/DynamicObjectArray`           | The universally unique identifiers (UUID) for each object |

#### Output

| Name        | Type                | Description                                                       |
| ----------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `out/image` | `sensor_msgs/Image` | The image that detection bounding boxes and their UUIDs are drawn |

## Parameters

### bytetrack_node

| Name                  | Type | Default Value | Description                                              |
| --------------------- | ---- | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `track_buffer_length` | int  | 30            | The frame count that a tracklet is considered to be lost |

### bytetrack_visualizer

| Name      | Type | Default Value | Description                                                                                   |
| --------- | ---- | ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `use_raw` | bool | false         | The flag for the node to switch `sensor_msgs/Image` or `sensor_msgs/CompressedImage` as input |

## Assumptions/Known limits

## Reference repositories

- <https://github.com/ifzhang/ByteTrack>

## License

The codes under the `lib` directory are copied from [the original codes](https://github.com/ifzhang/ByteTrack/tree/72ca8b45d36caf5a39e949c6aa815d9abffd1ab5/deploy/TensorRT/cpp) and modified.
The original codes belong to the MIT license stated as follows, while this ported packages are provided with Apache License 2.0:

> MIT License
>
> Copyright (c) 2021 Yifu Zhang
>
> Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
> of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
> in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
> to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
> copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
> furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
>
> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
> copies or substantial portions of the Software.
>
> THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
> IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
> FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
> AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
> LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
> OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
> SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

feat(bytetracker): modify kalman filter model to get better tracking performance (#5639)
* wip: try to replace kalman filter statements in bytetrack

Signed-off-by: yoshiri <yoshiyoshidetteiu@gmail.com>

* add config file for kalman filter

Signed-off-by: yoshiri <yoshiyoshidetteiu@gmail.com>

* add actual kalman filter code

Signed-off-by: yoshiri <yoshiyoshidetteiu@gmail.com>

* update readme

Signed-off-by: yoshiri <yoshiyoshidetteiu@gmail.com>

* Update perception/bytetrack/config/bytetracker.param.yaml

Co-authored-by: Shunsuke Miura <37187849+miursh@users.noreply.github.com>

* docs(bytetrack): Update demo video on README.md

Signed-off-by: Manato HIRABAYASHI <manato.hirabayashi@tier4.jp>

---------

Signed-off-by: yoshiri <yoshiyoshidetteiu@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Manato HIRABAYASHI <manato.hirabayashi@tier4.jp>
Co-authored-by: Shunsuke Miura <37187849+miursh@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Manato Hirabayashi <3022416+manato@users.noreply.github.com>

perception/bytetrack/README.md, after:

# bytetrack

## Purpose

The core algorithm, named `ByteTrack`, mainly aims to perform multi-object tracking.
Because the algorithm associates almost every detection box including ones with low detection scores,
the number of false negatives is expected to decrease by using it.

[demo video](https://github.com/YoshiRi/autoware.universe/assets/3022416/40f4c158-657e-48e1-81c2-8ac39152892d)

## Inner-workings / Algorithms

### Cite

<!-- cspell: ignore Yifu Peize Jiang Dongdong Fucheng Weng Zehuan Xinggang -->

- Yifu Zhang, Peize Sun, Yi Jiang, Dongdong Yu, Fucheng Weng, Zehuan Yuan, Ping Luo, Wenyu Liu, and Xinggang Wang,
  "ByteTrack: Multi-Object Tracking by Associating Every Detection Box", in the proc. of the ECCV
  2022, [[ref](https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.06864)]
- This package is ported version toward Autoware from [this repository](https://github.com/ifzhang/ByteTrack/tree/main/deploy/TensorRT/cpp)
  (The C++ implementation by the ByteTrack's authors)

### 2d tracking modification from original codes

The paper just says that the 2d tracking algorithm is a simple Kalman filter.
Original codes use the `top-left-corner` and `aspect ratio` and `size` as the state vector.

This is sometimes unstable because the aspectratio can be changed by the occlusion.
So, we use the `top-left` and `size` as the state vector.

Kalman filter settings can be controlled by the parameters in `config/bytetrack_node.param.yaml`.

## Inputs / Outputs

### bytetrack_node

#### Input

| Name      | Type                                               | Description                                 |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `in/rect` | `tier4_perception_msgs/DetectedObjectsWithFeature` | The detected objects with 2D bounding boxes |

#### Output

| Name                     | Type                                               | Description                                               |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `out/objects`            | `tier4_perception_msgs/DetectedObjectsWithFeature` | The detected objects with 2D bounding boxes               |
| `out/objects/debug/uuid` | `tier4_perception_msgs/DynamicObjectArray`         | The universally unique identifiers (UUID) for each object |

### bytetrack_visualizer

#### Input

| Name       | Type                                                 | Description                                               |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `in/image` | `sensor_msgs/Image` or `sensor_msgs/CompressedImage` | The input image on which object detection is performed    |
| `in/rect`  | `tier4_perception_msgs/DetectedObjectsWithFeature`   | The detected objects with 2D bounding boxes               |
| `in/uuid`  | `tier4_perception_msgs/DynamicObjectArray`           | The universally unique identifiers (UUID) for each object |

#### Output

| Name        | Type                | Description                                                       |
| ----------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `out/image` | `sensor_msgs/Image` | The image that detection bounding boxes and their UUIDs are drawn |

## Parameters

### bytetrack_node

| Name                  | Type | Default Value | Description                                              |
| --------------------- | ---- | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `track_buffer_length` | int  | 30            | The frame count that a tracklet is considered to be lost |

### bytetrack_visualizer

| Name      | Type | Default Value | Description                                                                                   |
| --------- | ---- | ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `use_raw` | bool | false         | The flag for the node to switch `sensor_msgs/Image` or `sensor_msgs/CompressedImage` as input |

## Assumptions/Known limits

## Reference repositories

- <https://github.com/ifzhang/ByteTrack>

## License

The codes under the `lib` directory are copied from [the original codes](https://github.com/ifzhang/ByteTrack/tree/72ca8b45d36caf5a39e949c6aa815d9abffd1ab5/deploy/TensorRT/cpp) and modified.
The original codes belong to the MIT license stated as follows, while this ported packages are provided with Apache License 2.0:

> MIT License
>
> Copyright (c) 2021 Yifu Zhang
>
> Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
> of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
> in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
> to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
> copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
> furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
>
> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
> copies or substantial portions of the Software.
>
> THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
> IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
> FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
> AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
> LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
> OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
> SOFTWARE.
