perception/traffic_light_classifier/README.md, before:

# traffic_light_classifier

## Purpose

traffic_light_classifier is a package for classifying traffic light labels using cropped image around a traffic light. This package has two classifier models: `cnn_classifier` and `hsv_classifier`.

## Inner-workings / Algorithms

### cnn_classifier

Traffic light labels are classified by EfficientNet-b1 or MobileNet-v2.  
Totally 83400 (58600 for training, 14800 for evaluation and 10000 for test) TIER IV internal images of Japanese traffic lights were used for fine-tuning.  
The information of the models is listed here:

| Name            | Input Size | Test Accuracy |
| --------------- | ---------- | ------------- |
| EfficientNet-b1 | 128 x 128  | 99.76%        |
| MobileNet-v2    | 224 x 224  | 99.81%        |

### hsv_classifier

Traffic light colors (green, yellow and red) are classified in HSV model.

### About Label

The message type is designed to comply with the unified road signs proposed at the [Vienna Convention](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vienna_Convention_on_Road_Signs_and_Signals#Traffic_lights). This idea has been also proposed in [Autoware.Auto](https://gitlab.com/autowarefoundation/autoware.auto/autoware_auto_msgs/-/merge_requests/16).

There are rules for naming labels that nodes receive. One traffic light is represented by the following character string separated by commas. `color1-shape1, color2-shape2` .

For example, the simple red and red cross traffic light label must be expressed as "red-circle, red-cross".

These colors and shapes are assigned to the message as follows:
![TrafficLightDataStructure.jpg](./image/TrafficLightDataStructure.jpg)

## Inputs / Outputs

### Input

| Name            | Type                                               | Description            |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `~/input/image` | `sensor_msgs::msg::Image`                          | input image            |
| `~/input/rois`  | `tier4_perception_msgs::msg::TrafficLightRoiArray` | rois of traffic lights |

### Output

| Name                       | Type                                             | Description         |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------- |
| `~/output/traffic_signals` | `tier4_perception_msgs::msg::TrafficSignalArray` | classified signals  |
| `~/output/debug/image`     | `sensor_msgs::msg::Image`                        | image for debugging |

## Parameters

### Node Parameters

| Name              | Type | Description                                 |
| ----------------- | ---- | ------------------------------------------- |
| `classifier_type` | int  | if the value is `1`, cnn_classifier is used |
| `data_path`       | str  | packages data and artifacts directory path  |

### Core Parameters

#### cnn_classifier

| Name                    | Type            | Description                          |
| ----------------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `classifier_label_path` | str             | path to the model file               |
| `classifier_model_path` | str             | path to the label file               |
| `classifier_precision`  | str             | TensorRT precision, `fp16` or `int8` |
| `classifier_mean`       | vector\<double> | 3-channel input image mean           |
| `classifier_std`        | vector\<double> | 3-channel input image std            |
| `apply_softmax`         | bool            | whether or not apply softmax         |

#### hsv_classifier

| Name           | Type | Description                                    |
| -------------- | ---- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `green_min_h`  | int  | the minimum hue of green color                 |
| `green_min_s`  | int  | the minimum saturation of green color          |
| `green_min_v`  | int  | the minimum value (brightness) of green color  |
| `green_max_h`  | int  | the maximum hue of green color                 |
| `green_max_s`  | int  | the maximum saturation of green color          |
| `green_max_v`  | int  | the maximum value (brightness) of green color  |
| `yellow_min_h` | int  | the minimum hue of yellow color                |
| `yellow_min_s` | int  | the minimum saturation of yellow color         |
| `yellow_min_v` | int  | the minimum value (brightness) of yellow color |
| `yellow_max_h` | int  | the maximum hue of yellow color                |
| `yellow_max_s` | int  | the maximum saturation of yellow color         |
| `yellow_max_v` | int  | the maximum value (brightness) of yellow color |
| `red_min_h`    | int  | the minimum hue of red color                   |
| `red_min_s`    | int  | the minimum saturation of red color            |
| `red_min_v`    | int  | the minimum value (brightness) of red color    |
| `red_max_h`    | int  | the maximum hue of red color                   |
| `red_max_s`    | int  | the maximum saturation of red color            |
| `red_max_v`    | int  | the maximum value (brightness) of red color    |

## Training Traffic Light Classifier Model

### Overview

This guide provides detailed instructions on training a traffic light classifier model using the **[mmlab/mmpretrain](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmpretrain)** repository
and deploying it using **[mmlab/mmdeploy](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy)**.
If you wish to create a custom traffic light classifier model with your own dataset, please follow the steps outlined below.

### Data Preparation

#### Use Sample Dataset

Autoware offers a sample dataset that illustrates the training procedures for
traffic light classification. This dataset comprises 1045 images categorized
into red, green, and yellow labels. To utilize this sample dataset,
please download it from **[link](https://autoware-files.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dataset/traffic_light_sample_dataset.tar.gz)** and extract it to a designated folder of your choice.

#### Use Your Custom Dataset

To train a traffic light classifier, adopt a structured subfolder format where each
subfolder represents a distinct class. Below is an illustrative dataset structure example;

```python
DATASET_ROOT
    ├── TRAIN
    │    ├── RED
    │    │   ├── 001.png
    │    │   ├── 002.png
    │    │   └── ...
    │    │
    │    ├── GREEN
    │    │    ├── 001.png
    │    │    ├── 002.png
    │    │    └──...
    │    │
    │    ├── YELLOW
    │    │    ├── 001.png
    │    │    ├── 002.png
    │    │    └──...
    │    └── ...
    │
    ├── VAL
    │       └──...
    │
    │
    └── TEST
           └── ...


```

### Installation

#### Prerequisites

<!-- cspell:ignore Miniconda -->

**Step 1.** Download and install Miniconda from the [official website](https://mmpretrain.readthedocs.io/en/latest/get_started.html).

**Step 2.** Create a conda virtual environment and activate it

```bash
conda create --name tl-classifier python=3.8 -y
conda activate tl-classifier
```

**Step 3.** Install PyTorch

Please ensure you have PyTorch installed, compatible with CUDA 11.6, as it is a requirement for current Autoware

```bash
conda install pytorch==1.13.1 torchvision==0.14.1 pytorch-cuda=11.6 -c pytorch -c nvidia
```

#### Install mmlab/mmpretrain

**Step 1.** Install mmpretrain from source

```bash
cd ~/
git clone https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmpretrain.git
cd mmpretrain
pip install -U openmim && mim install -e .
```

### Training

MMPretrain offers a training script that is controlled through a configuration file.
Leveraging an inheritance design pattern, you can effortlessly tailor the training script
using Python files as configuration files.

In the example, we demonstrate the training steps on the MobileNetV2 model,
but you have the flexibility to employ alternative classification models such as
EfficientNetV2, EfficientNetV3, ResNet, and more.

#### Create a config file

Generate a configuration file for your preferred model within the `configs` folder

```bash
touch ~/mmpretrain/configs/mobilenet_v2/mobilenet-v2_8xb32_custom.py
```

Open the configuration file in your preferred text editor and make a copy of
the provided content. Adjust the **data_root** variable to match the path of your dataset.
You are welcome to customize the configuration parameters for the model, dataset, and scheduler to
suit your preferences

```python
# Inherit model, schedule and default_runtime from base model
_base_ = [
    '../_base_/models/mobilenet_v2_1x.py',
    '../_base_/schedules/imagenet_bs256_epochstep.py',
    '../_base_/default_runtime.py'
]

# Set the number of classes to the model
# You can also change other model parameters here
# For detailed descriptions of model parameters, please refer to link below
# (Customize model)[https://mmpretrain.readthedocs.io/en/latest/advanced_guides/modules.html]
model = dict(head=dict(num_classes=3, topk=(1, 3)))

# Set max epochs and validation interval
train_cfg = dict(by_epoch=True, max_epochs=50, val_interval=5)

# Set optimizer and lr scheduler
optim_wrapper = dict(
    optimizer=dict(type='SGD', lr=0.001, momentum=0.9))
param_scheduler = dict(type='StepLR', by_epoch=True, step_size=1, gamma=0.98)

dataset_type = 'CustomDataset'
data_root = "/PATH/OF/YOUR/DATASET"

# Customize data preprocessing and dataloader pipeline for training set
# These parameters calculated for the sample dataset
data_preprocessor = dict(
    mean=[0.2888 * 256, 0.2570 * 256, 0.2329 * 256],
    std=[0.2106 * 256, 0.2037 * 256, 0.1864 * 256],
    num_classes=3,
    to_rgb=True,
)

# Customize data preprocessing and dataloader pipeline for train set
# For detailed descriptions of data pipeline, please refer to link below
# (Customize data pipeline)[https://mmpretrain.readthedocs.io/en/latest/advanced_guides/pipeline.html]
train_pipeline = [
    dict(type='LoadImageFromFile'),
    dict(type='Resize', scale=224),
    dict(type='RandomFlip', prob=0.5, direction='horizontal'),
    dict(type='PackInputs'),
]
train_dataloader = dict(
    dataset=dict(
        type=dataset_type,
        data_root=data_root,
        ann_file='',
        data_prefix='train',
        with_label=True,
        pipeline=train_pipeline,
    ),
    num_workers=8,
    batch_size=32,
    sampler=dict(type='DefaultSampler', shuffle=True)
)

# Customize data preprocessing and dataloader pipeline for test set
test_pipeline = [
    dict(type='LoadImageFromFile'),
    dict(type='Resize', scale=224),
    dict(type='PackInputs'),
]

# Customize data preprocessing and dataloader pipeline for validation set
val_cfg = dict()
val_dataloader = dict(
    dataset=dict(
        type=dataset_type,
        data_root=data_root,
        ann_file='',
        data_prefix='val',
        with_label=True,
        pipeline=test_pipeline,
    ),
    num_workers=8,
    batch_size=32,
    sampler=dict(type='DefaultSampler', shuffle=True)
)

val_evaluator = dict(topk=(1, 3,), type='Accuracy')

test_dataloader = val_dataloader
test_evaluator = val_evaluator

```

#### Start training

```bash
cd ~/mmpretrain
python tools/train.py configs/mobilenet_v2/mobilenet-v2_8xb32_custom.py
```

Training logs and weights will be saved in the `work_dirs/mobilenet-v2_8xb32_custom` folder.

### Convert PyTorch model to ONNX model

#### Install mmdeploy

The 'mmdeploy' toolset is designed for deploying your trained model onto various target devices.
With its capabilities, you can seamlessly convert PyTorch models into the ONNX format.

```bash
# Activate your conda environment
conda activate tl-classifier

# Install mmenigne and mmcv
mim install mmengine
mim install "mmcv>=2.0.0rc2"

# Install mmdeploy
pip install mmdeploy==1.2.0

# Support onnxruntime
pip install mmdeploy-runtime==1.2.0
pip install mmdeploy-runtime-gpu==1.2.0
pip install onnxruntime-gpu==1.8.1

#Clone mmdeploy repository
cd ~/
git clone -b main https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy.git
```

#### Convert PyTorch model to ONNX model

```bash
cd ~/mmdeploy

# Run deploy.py script
# deploy.py script takes 5 main arguments with these order; config file path, train config file path,
# checkpoint file path, demo image path, and work directory path
python tools/deploy.py \
~/mmdeploy/configs/mmpretrain/classification_onnxruntime_static.py\
~/mmpretrain/configs/mobilenet_v2/train_mobilenet_v2.py \
~/mmpretrain/work_dirs/train_mobilenet_v2/epoch_300.pth \
/SAMPLE/IAMGE/DIRECTORY \
--work-dir mmdeploy_model/mobilenet_v2
```

Converted ONNX model will be saved in the `mmdeploy/mmdeploy_model/mobilenet_v2` folder.

After obtaining your onnx model, update parameters defined in the launch file (e.g. `model_file_path`, `label_file_path`, `input_h`, `input_w`...).
Note that, we only support labels defined in [tier4_perception_msgs::msg::TrafficLightElement](https://github.com/tier4/tier4_autoware_msgs/blob/tier4/universe/tier4_perception_msgs/msg/traffic_light/TrafficLightElement.msg).

## Assumptions / Known limits

<!-- Write assumptions and limitations of your implementation.

Example:
  This algorithm assumes obstacles are not moving, so if they rapidly move after the vehicle started to avoid them, it might collide with them.
  Also, this algorithm doesn't care about blind spots. In general, since too close obstacles aren't visible due to the sensing performance limit, please take enough margin to obstacles.
-->

## (Optional) Error detection and handling

<!-- Write how to detect errors and how to recover from them.

Example:
  This package can handle up to 20 obstacles. If more obstacles found, this node will give up and raise diagnostic errors.
-->

## (Optional) Performance characterization

<!-- Write performance information like complexity. If it wouldn't be the bottleneck, not necessary.

Example:

  ### Complexity

  This algorithm is O(N).

  ### Processing time

  ...
-->

<!-- cspell:ignore Mingxing, Quoc, PMLR -->

## References/External links

[1] M. Sandler, A. Howard, M. Zhu, A. Zhmoginov and L. Chen, "MobileNetV2: Inverted Residuals and Linear Bottlenecks," 2018 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Salt Lake City, UT, 2018, pp. 4510-4520, doi: 10.1109/CVPR.2018.00474.

[2] Tan, Mingxing, and Quoc Le. "EfficientNet: Rethinking model scaling for convolutional neural networks." International conference on machine learning. PMLR, 2019.

## (Optional) Future extensions / Unimplemented parts

<!-- Write future extensions of this package.

Example:
  Currently, this package can't handle the chattering obstacles well. We plan to add some probabilistic filters in the perception layer to improve it.
  Also, there are some parameters that should be global(e.g. vehicle size, max steering, etc.). These will be refactored and defined as global parameters so that we can share the same parameters between different nodes.
-->

Commit message:

feat: add support of overwriting signals if harsh backlight is detected (#5852)
* feat: add support of overwriting signals if backlit is detected

Signed-off-by: ktro2828 <kotaro.uetake@tier4.jp>

* feat: remove default parameter in nodelet and update lauch for composable node

Signed-off-by: ktro2828 <kotaro.uetake@tier4.jp>

* docs: update README

Signed-off-by: ktro2828 <kotaro.uetake@tier4.jp>

* docs: update README

Signed-off-by: ktro2828 <kotaro.uetake@tier4.jp>

* feat: update confidence to 0.0 corresponding signals overwritten by unkonwn

Signed-off-by: ktro2828 <kotaro.uetake@tier4.jp>

---------

Signed-off-by: ktro2828 <kotaro.uetake@tier4.jp>

perception/traffic_light_classifier/README.md, after:

# traffic_light_classifier

## Purpose

traffic_light_classifier is a package for classifying traffic light labels using cropped image around a traffic light. This package has two classifier models: `cnn_classifier` and `hsv_classifier`.

## Inner-workings / Algorithms

### cnn_classifier

Traffic light labels are classified by EfficientNet-b1 or MobileNet-v2.  
Totally 83400 (58600 for training, 14800 for evaluation and 10000 for test) TIER IV internal images of Japanese traffic lights were used for fine-tuning.  
The information of the models is listed here:

| Name            | Input Size | Test Accuracy |
| --------------- | ---------- | ------------- |
| EfficientNet-b1 | 128 x 128  | 99.76%        |
| MobileNet-v2    | 224 x 224  | 99.81%        |

### hsv_classifier

Traffic light colors (green, yellow and red) are classified in HSV model.

### About Label

The message type is designed to comply with the unified road signs proposed at the [Vienna Convention](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vienna_Convention_on_Road_Signs_and_Signals#Traffic_lights). This idea has been also proposed in [Autoware.Auto](https://gitlab.com/autowarefoundation/autoware.auto/autoware_auto_msgs/-/merge_requests/16).

There are rules for naming labels that nodes receive. One traffic light is represented by the following character string separated by commas. `color1-shape1, color2-shape2` .

For example, the simple red and red cross traffic light label must be expressed as "red-circle, red-cross".

These colors and shapes are assigned to the message as follows:
![TrafficLightDataStructure.jpg](./image/TrafficLightDataStructure.jpg)

## Inputs / Outputs

### Input

| Name            | Type                                               | Description            |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `~/input/image` | `sensor_msgs::msg::Image`                          | input image            |
| `~/input/rois`  | `tier4_perception_msgs::msg::TrafficLightRoiArray` | rois of traffic lights |

### Output

| Name                       | Type                                             | Description         |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------- |
| `~/output/traffic_signals` | `tier4_perception_msgs::msg::TrafficSignalArray` | classified signals  |
| `~/output/debug/image`     | `sensor_msgs::msg::Image`                        | image for debugging |

## Parameters

### Node Parameters

| Name                  | Type  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| --------------------- | ----- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `classifier_type`     | int   | if the value is `1`, cnn_classifier is used                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `data_path`           | str   | packages data and artifacts directory path                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `backlight_threshold` | float | If the intensity get grater than this overwrite with UNKNOWN in corresponding RoI. Note that, if the value is much higher, the node only overwrites in the harsher backlight situations. Therefore, If you wouldn't like to use this feature set this value to `1.0`. The value can be `[0.0, 1.0]`. The confidence of overwritten signal is set to `0.0`. |

### Core Parameters

#### cnn_classifier

| Name                    | Type            | Description                          |
| ----------------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `classifier_label_path` | str             | path to the model file               |
| `classifier_model_path` | str             | path to the label file               |
| `classifier_precision`  | str             | TensorRT precision, `fp16` or `int8` |
| `classifier_mean`       | vector\<double> | 3-channel input image mean           |
| `classifier_std`        | vector\<double> | 3-channel input image std            |
| `apply_softmax`         | bool            | whether or not apply softmax         |

#### hsv_classifier

| Name           | Type | Description                                    |
| -------------- | ---- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `green_min_h`  | int  | the minimum hue of green color                 |
| `green_min_s`  | int  | the minimum saturation of green color          |
| `green_min_v`  | int  | the minimum value (brightness) of green color  |
| `green_max_h`  | int  | the maximum hue of green color                 |
| `green_max_s`  | int  | the maximum saturation of green color          |
| `green_max_v`  | int  | the maximum value (brightness) of green color  |
| `yellow_min_h` | int  | the minimum hue of yellow color                |
| `yellow_min_s` | int  | the minimum saturation of yellow color         |
| `yellow_min_v` | int  | the minimum value (brightness) of yellow color |
| `yellow_max_h` | int  | the maximum hue of yellow color                |
| `yellow_max_s` | int  | the maximum saturation of yellow color         |
| `yellow_max_v` | int  | the maximum value (brightness) of yellow color |
| `red_min_h`    | int  | the minimum hue of red color                   |
| `red_min_s`    | int  | the minimum saturation of red color            |
| `red_min_v`    | int  | the minimum value (brightness) of red color    |
| `red_max_h`    | int  | the maximum hue of red color                   |
| `red_max_s`    | int  | the maximum saturation of red color            |
| `red_max_v`    | int  | the maximum value (brightness) of red color    |

## Training Traffic Light Classifier Model

### Overview

This guide provides detailed instructions on training a traffic light classifier model using the **[mmlab/mmpretrain](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmpretrain)** repository
and deploying it using **[mmlab/mmdeploy](https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy)**.
If you wish to create a custom traffic light classifier model with your own dataset, please follow the steps outlined below.

### Data Preparation

#### Use Sample Dataset

Autoware offers a sample dataset that illustrates the training procedures for
traffic light classification. This dataset comprises 1045 images categorized
into red, green, and yellow labels. To utilize this sample dataset,
please download it from **[link](https://autoware-files.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dataset/traffic_light_sample_dataset.tar.gz)** and extract it to a designated folder of your choice.

#### Use Your Custom Dataset

To train a traffic light classifier, adopt a structured subfolder format where each
subfolder represents a distinct class. Below is an illustrative dataset structure example;

```python
DATASET_ROOT
    ├── TRAIN
    │    ├── RED
    │    │   ├── 001.png
    │    │   ├── 002.png
    │    │   └── ...
    │    │
    │    ├── GREEN
    │    │    ├── 001.png
    │    │    ├── 002.png
    │    │    └──...
    │    │
    │    ├── YELLOW
    │    │    ├── 001.png
    │    │    ├── 002.png
    │    │    └──...
    │    └── ...
    │
    ├── VAL
    │       └──...
    │
    │
    └── TEST
           └── ...


```

### Installation

#### Prerequisites

<!-- cspell:ignore Miniconda -->

**Step 1.** Download and install Miniconda from the [official website](https://mmpretrain.readthedocs.io/en/latest/get_started.html).

**Step 2.** Create a conda virtual environment and activate it

```bash
conda create --name tl-classifier python=3.8 -y
conda activate tl-classifier
```

**Step 3.** Install PyTorch

Please ensure you have PyTorch installed, compatible with CUDA 11.6, as it is a requirement for current Autoware

```bash
conda install pytorch==1.13.1 torchvision==0.14.1 pytorch-cuda=11.6 -c pytorch -c nvidia
```

#### Install mmlab/mmpretrain

**Step 1.** Install mmpretrain from source

```bash
cd ~/
git clone https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmpretrain.git
cd mmpretrain
pip install -U openmim && mim install -e .
```

### Training

MMPretrain offers a training script that is controlled through a configuration file.
Leveraging an inheritance design pattern, you can effortlessly tailor the training script
using Python files as configuration files.

In the example, we demonstrate the training steps on the MobileNetV2 model,
but you have the flexibility to employ alternative classification models such as
EfficientNetV2, EfficientNetV3, ResNet, and more.

#### Create a config file

Generate a configuration file for your preferred model within the `configs` folder

```bash
touch ~/mmpretrain/configs/mobilenet_v2/mobilenet-v2_8xb32_custom.py
```

Open the configuration file in your preferred text editor and make a copy of
the provided content. Adjust the **data_root** variable to match the path of your dataset.
You are welcome to customize the configuration parameters for the model, dataset, and scheduler to
suit your preferences

```python
# Inherit model, schedule and default_runtime from base model
_base_ = [
    '../_base_/models/mobilenet_v2_1x.py',
    '../_base_/schedules/imagenet_bs256_epochstep.py',
    '../_base_/default_runtime.py'
]

# Set the number of classes to the model
# You can also change other model parameters here
# For detailed descriptions of model parameters, please refer to link below
# (Customize model)[https://mmpretrain.readthedocs.io/en/latest/advanced_guides/modules.html]
model = dict(head=dict(num_classes=3, topk=(1, 3)))

# Set max epochs and validation interval
train_cfg = dict(by_epoch=True, max_epochs=50, val_interval=5)

# Set optimizer and lr scheduler
optim_wrapper = dict(
    optimizer=dict(type='SGD', lr=0.001, momentum=0.9))
param_scheduler = dict(type='StepLR', by_epoch=True, step_size=1, gamma=0.98)

dataset_type = 'CustomDataset'
data_root = "/PATH/OF/YOUR/DATASET"

# Customize data preprocessing and dataloader pipeline for training set
# These parameters calculated for the sample dataset
data_preprocessor = dict(
    mean=[0.2888 * 256, 0.2570 * 256, 0.2329 * 256],
    std=[0.2106 * 256, 0.2037 * 256, 0.1864 * 256],
    num_classes=3,
    to_rgb=True,
)

# Customize data preprocessing and dataloader pipeline for train set
# For detailed descriptions of data pipeline, please refer to link below
# (Customize data pipeline)[https://mmpretrain.readthedocs.io/en/latest/advanced_guides/pipeline.html]
train_pipeline = [
    dict(type='LoadImageFromFile'),
    dict(type='Resize', scale=224),
    dict(type='RandomFlip', prob=0.5, direction='horizontal'),
    dict(type='PackInputs'),
]
train_dataloader = dict(
    dataset=dict(
        type=dataset_type,
        data_root=data_root,
        ann_file='',
        data_prefix='train',
        with_label=True,
        pipeline=train_pipeline,
    ),
    num_workers=8,
    batch_size=32,
    sampler=dict(type='DefaultSampler', shuffle=True)
)

# Customize data preprocessing and dataloader pipeline for test set
test_pipeline = [
    dict(type='LoadImageFromFile'),
    dict(type='Resize', scale=224),
    dict(type='PackInputs'),
]

# Customize data preprocessing and dataloader pipeline for validation set
val_cfg = dict()
val_dataloader = dict(
    dataset=dict(
        type=dataset_type,
        data_root=data_root,
        ann_file='',
        data_prefix='val',
        with_label=True,
        pipeline=test_pipeline,
    ),
    num_workers=8,
    batch_size=32,
    sampler=dict(type='DefaultSampler', shuffle=True)
)

val_evaluator = dict(topk=(1, 3,), type='Accuracy')

test_dataloader = val_dataloader
test_evaluator = val_evaluator

```

#### Start training

```bash
cd ~/mmpretrain
python tools/train.py configs/mobilenet_v2/mobilenet-v2_8xb32_custom.py
```

Training logs and weights will be saved in the `work_dirs/mobilenet-v2_8xb32_custom` folder.

### Convert PyTorch model to ONNX model

#### Install mmdeploy

The 'mmdeploy' toolset is designed for deploying your trained model onto various target devices.
With its capabilities, you can seamlessly convert PyTorch models into the ONNX format.

```bash
# Activate your conda environment
conda activate tl-classifier

# Install mmenigne and mmcv
mim install mmengine
mim install "mmcv>=2.0.0rc2"

# Install mmdeploy
pip install mmdeploy==1.2.0

# Support onnxruntime
pip install mmdeploy-runtime==1.2.0
pip install mmdeploy-runtime-gpu==1.2.0
pip install onnxruntime-gpu==1.8.1

#Clone mmdeploy repository
cd ~/
git clone -b main https://github.com/open-mmlab/mmdeploy.git
```

#### Convert PyTorch model to ONNX model

```bash
cd ~/mmdeploy

# Run deploy.py script
# deploy.py script takes 5 main arguments with these order; config file path, train config file path,
# checkpoint file path, demo image path, and work directory path
python tools/deploy.py \
~/mmdeploy/configs/mmpretrain/classification_onnxruntime_static.py\
~/mmpretrain/configs/mobilenet_v2/train_mobilenet_v2.py \
~/mmpretrain/work_dirs/train_mobilenet_v2/epoch_300.pth \
/SAMPLE/IAMGE/DIRECTORY \
--work-dir mmdeploy_model/mobilenet_v2
```

Converted ONNX model will be saved in the `mmdeploy/mmdeploy_model/mobilenet_v2` folder.

After obtaining your onnx model, update parameters defined in the launch file (e.g. `model_file_path`, `label_file_path`, `input_h`, `input_w`...).
Note that, we only support labels defined in [tier4_perception_msgs::msg::TrafficLightElement](https://github.com/tier4/tier4_autoware_msgs/blob/tier4/universe/tier4_perception_msgs/msg/traffic_light/TrafficLightElement.msg).

## Assumptions / Known limits

<!-- Write assumptions and limitations of your implementation.

Example:
  This algorithm assumes obstacles are not moving, so if they rapidly move after the vehicle started to avoid them, it might collide with them.
  Also, this algorithm doesn't care about blind spots. In general, since too close obstacles aren't visible due to the sensing performance limit, please take enough margin to obstacles.
-->

## (Optional) Error detection and handling

<!-- Write how to detect errors and how to recover from them.

Example:
  This package can handle up to 20 obstacles. If more obstacles found, this node will give up and raise diagnostic errors.
-->

## (Optional) Performance characterization

<!-- Write performance information like complexity. If it wouldn't be the bottleneck, not necessary.

Example:

  ### Complexity

  This algorithm is O(N).

  ### Processing time

  ...
-->

<!-- cspell:ignore Mingxing, Quoc, PMLR -->

## References/External links

[1] M. Sandler, A. Howard, M. Zhu, A. Zhmoginov and L. Chen, "MobileNetV2: Inverted Residuals and Linear Bottlenecks," 2018 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Salt Lake City, UT, 2018, pp. 4510-4520, doi: 10.1109/CVPR.2018.00474.

[2] Tan, Mingxing, and Quoc Le. "EfficientNet: Rethinking model scaling for convolutional neural networks." International conference on machine learning. PMLR, 2019.

## (Optional) Future extensions / Unimplemented parts

<!-- Write future extensions of this package.

Example:
  Currently, this package can't handle the chattering obstacles well. We plan to add some probabilistic filters in the perception layer to improve it.
  Also, there are some parameters that should be global(e.g. vehicle size, max steering, etc.). These will be refactored and defined as global parameters so that we can share the same parameters between different nodes.
-->
