planning/behavior_path_side_shift_module/README.md, before:

# Side Shift design

(For remote control) Shift the path to left or right according to an external instruction.

## Flowchart

```plantuml
@startuml
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam defaultTextAlignment center
skinparam noteTextAlignment left

title callback function of lateral offset input
start

partition onLateralOffset {
:**INPUT** double new_lateral_offset;

if (abs(inserted_lateral_offset_ - new_lateral_offset) < 1e-4) then ( true)
  stop
else ( false)
  if (interval from last request is too short) then ( no)
  else ( yes)
  :requested_lateral_offset_ = new_lateral_offset \n lateral_offset_change_request_ = true;
  endif
stop
@enduml
```

```plantuml -->
@startuml
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam defaultTextAlignment center
skinparam noteTextAlignment left

title path generation

start
partition plan {
if (lateral_offset_change_request_ == true \n && \n (shifting_status_ == BEFORE_SHIFT \n || \n shifting_status_ == AFTER_SHIFT)) then ( true)
  partition replace-shift-line {
    if ( shift line is inserted in the path ) then ( yes)
      :erase left shift line;
    else ( no)
    endif
    :calcShiftLines;
    :add new shift lines;
    :inserted_lateral_offset_ = requested_lateral_offset_ \n inserted_shift_lines_ = new_shift_line;
  }
else( false)
endif
stop
@enduml
```

```plantuml
@startuml
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam defaultTextAlignment center
skinparam noteTextAlignment left

title update state

start
partition updateState {
  :last_sp = path_shifter_.getLastShiftLine();
  note left
  get furthest shift lines
  end note
  :calculate max_planned_shift_length;
  note left
  calculate furthest shift length of previous shifted path
  end note
  if (abs(inserted_lateral_offset_ - inserted_shift_line_.end_shift_length) < 1e-4 \n && \n abs(max_planned_shift_length) < 1e-4 \n && \n abs(requested_lateral_offset_) < 1e-4) then ( true)
    :current_state_ = BT::NodeStatus::SUCCESS;
  else (false)
    if (ego's position is behind of shift line's start point) then( yes)
      :shifting_status_ = BEFORE_SHIFT;
    else ( no)
      if ( ego's position is between shift line's start point and end point) then (yes)
        :shifting_status_ = SHIFTING;
      else( no)
        :shifting_status_ = AFTER_SHIFT;
      endif
    endif
    :current_state_ = BT::NodeStatus::RUNNING;
  endif
  stop
}

@enduml
```

Commit message:

docs(side_shift): update side shift document (#6123)
* update side shift document

Signed-off-by: kyoichi-sugahara <kyoichi.sugahara@tier4.jp>

---------

Signed-off-by: kyoichi-sugahara <kyoichi.sugahara@tier4.jp>

planning/behavior_path_side_shift_module/README.md, after:

# Side Shift design

(For remote control) Shift the path to left or right according to an external instruction.

## Overview of the Side Shift Module Process

1. Receive the required lateral offset input.
2. Update the `requested_lateral_offset_` under the following conditions:
   a. Verify if the last update time has elapsed.
   b. Ensure the required lateral offset value is different from the previous one.
3. Insert the shift points into the path if the side shift module's status is not in the SHIFTING status.

Please be aware that `requested_lateral_offset_` is continuously updated with the latest values and is not queued.

## Statuses of the Side Shift

The side shift has three distinct statuses. Note that during the SHIFTING status, the path cannot be updated:

1. BEFORE_SHIFT: Preparing for shift.
2. SHIFTING: Currently in the process of shifting.
3. AFTER_SHIFT: Shift completed.

<figure markdown>
  ![case1](images/side_shift_status.drawio.svg){width=1000}
  <figcaption>side shift status</figcaption>
</figure>

## Flowchart

```plantuml
@startuml
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam defaultTextAlignment center
skinparam noteTextAlignment left

title callback function of lateral offset input
start

partition onLateralOffset {
:**INPUT** double new_lateral_offset;

if (abs(inserted_lateral_offset_ - new_lateral_offset) < 1e-4) then ( true)
  stop
else ( false)
  if (interval from last request is too short) then ( no)
  else ( yes)
  :requested_lateral_offset_ = new_lateral_offset \n lateral_offset_change_request_ = true;
  endif
stop
@enduml
```

```plantuml
@startuml
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam defaultTextAlignment center
skinparam noteTextAlignment left

title path generation

start
partition plan {
if (lateral_offset_change_request_ == true \n && \n (shifting_status_ == BEFORE_SHIFT \n || \n shifting_status_ == AFTER_SHIFT)) then ( true)
  partition replace-shift-line {
    if ( shift line is inserted in the path ) then ( yes)
      :erase left shift line;
    else ( no)
    endif
    :calcShiftLines;
    :add new shift lines;
    :inserted_lateral_offset_ = requested_lateral_offset_ \n inserted_shift_lines_ = new_shift_line;
  }
else( false)
endif
stop
@enduml
```

```plantuml
@startuml
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam defaultTextAlignment center
skinparam noteTextAlignment left

title update state

start
partition updateState {
  :last_sp = path_shifter_.getLastShiftLine();
  note left
  get furthest shift lines
  end note
  :calculate max_planned_shift_length;
  note left
  calculate furthest shift length of previous shifted path
  end note
  if (abs(inserted_lateral_offset_ - inserted_shift_line_.end_shift_length) < 1e-4 \n && \n abs(max_planned_shift_length) < 1e-4 \n && \n abs(requested_lateral_offset_) < 1e-4) then ( true)
    :current_state_ = BT::NodeStatus::SUCCESS;
  else (false)
    if (ego's position is behind of shift line's start point) then( yes)
      :shifting_status_ = BEFORE_SHIFT;
    else ( no)
      if ( ego's position is between shift line's start point and end point) then (yes)
        :shifting_status_ = SHIFTING;
      else( no)
        :shifting_status_ = AFTER_SHIFT;
      endif
    endif
    :current_state_ = BT::NodeStatus::RUNNING;
  endif
  stop
}

@enduml
```
