localization/landmark_based_localizer/ar_tag_based_localizer/README.md, before:

# AR Tag Based Localizer

**ArTagBasedLocalizer** is a vision-based localization node.

<img src="./doc_image/ar_tag_image.png" width="320px">

This node uses [the ArUco library](https://index.ros.org/p/aruco/) to detect AR-Tags from camera images and calculates and publishes the pose of the ego vehicle based on these detections.
The positions and orientations of the AR-Tags are assumed to be written in the Lanelet2 format.

## Inputs / Outputs

### `ar_tag_based_localizer` node

#### Input

| Name                  | Type                                            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| :-------------------- | :---------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `~/input/image`       | `sensor_msgs::msg::Image`                       | Camera Image                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `~/input/camera_info` | `sensor_msgs::msg::CameraInfo`                  | Camera Info                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `~/input/ekf_pose`    | `geometry_msgs::msg::PoseWithCovarianceStamped` | EKF Pose without IMU correction. It is used to validate detected AR tags by filtering out False Positives. Only if the EKF Pose and the AR tag-detected Pose are within a certain temporal and spatial range, the AR tag-detected Pose is considered valid and published. |

#### Output

| Name                            | Type                                            | Description                                                                               |
| :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `~/output/pose_with_covariance` | `geometry_msgs::msg::PoseWithCovarianceStamped` | Estimated Pose                                                                            |
| `~/debug/result`                | `sensor_msgs::msg::Image`                       | [debug topic] Image in which marker detection results are superimposed on the input image |
| `/tf`                           | `geometry_msgs::msg::TransformStamped`          | [debug topic] TF from camera to detected tag                                              |
| `/diagnostics`                  | `diagnostic_msgs::msg::DiagnosticArray`         | Diagnostics outputs                                                                       |

## How to launch

When launching Autoware, set `artag` for `pose_source`.

```bash
ros2 launch autoware_launch ... \
    pose_source:=artag \
    ...
```

### Rosbag

#### [Sample rosbag and map (AWSIM data)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1uMVwQQFcfs8JOqfoA1FqfH_fLPwQ71jK/view)

This data is simulated data created by [AWSIM](https://tier4.github.io/AWSIM/).
Essentially, AR tag-based self-localization is not intended for such public road driving, but for driving in a smaller area, so the max driving speed is set at 15 km/h.

It is a known problem that the timing of when each AR tag begins to be detected can cause significant changes in estimation.

![sample_result_in_awsim](./doc_image/sample_result_in_awsim.png)

#### [Sample rosbag and map (Real world data)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wiCQjyjRnYbb0dg8G6mRecdSGh8tv3zR/view)

Please remap the topic names and play it.

```bash
ros2 bag play /path/to/ar_tag_based_localizer_sample_bag/ -r 0.5 -s sqlite3 \
     --remap /sensing/camera/front/image:=/sensing/camera/traffic_light/image_raw \
             /sensing/camera/front/image/info:=/sensing/camera/traffic_light/camera_info
```

This dataset contains issues such as missing IMU data, and overall the accuracy is low. Even when running AR tag-based self-localization, significant difference from the true trajectory can be observed.

The image below shows the trajectory when the sample is executed and plotted.

![sample_result](./doc_image/sample_result.png)

The pull request video below should also be helpful.

<https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware.universe/pull/4347#issuecomment-1663155248>

## Principle

![principle](../doc_image/principle.png)

Commit message:

refactor(landmark_based_localizer): refactored landmark_tf_caster (#5414)
* Removed landmark_tf_caster node

Signed-off-by: Shintaro SAKODA <shintaro.sakoda@tier4.jp>

* Added maintainer

Signed-off-by: Shintaro SAKODA <shintaro.sakoda@tier4.jp>

* style(pre-commit): autofix

* Renamed to landmark_parser

Signed-off-by: Shintaro SAKODA <shintaro.sakoda@tier4.jp>

* Added include<map>

Signed-off-by: Shintaro SAKODA <shintaro.sakoda@tier4.jp>

* style(pre-commit): autofix

* Added publish_landmark_markers

Signed-off-by: Shintaro SAKODA <shintaro.sakoda@tier4.jp>

* Removed unused package.xml

Signed-off-by: Shintaro Sakoda <shintaro.sakoda@tier4.jp>

* Changed from depend to build_depend

Signed-off-by: Shintaro Sakoda <shintaro.sakoda@tier4.jp>

* Fixed a local variable name

Signed-off-by: Shintaro Sakoda <shintaro.sakoda@tier4.jp>

* Fixed Marker to MarkerArray

Signed-off-by: Shintaro Sakoda <shintaro.sakoda@tier4.jp>

---------

Signed-off-by: Shintaro SAKODA <shintaro.sakoda@tier4.jp>
Signed-off-by: Shintaro Sakoda <shintaro.sakoda@tier4.jp>
Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

localization/landmark_based_localizer/ar_tag_based_localizer/README.md, after:

# AR Tag Based Localizer

**ArTagBasedLocalizer** is a vision-based localization node.

<img src="./doc_image/ar_tag_image.png" width="320px">

This node uses [the ArUco library](https://index.ros.org/p/aruco/) to detect AR-Tags from camera images and calculates and publishes the pose of the ego vehicle based on these detections.
The positions and orientations of the AR-Tags are assumed to be written in the Lanelet2 format.

## Inputs / Outputs

### `ar_tag_based_localizer` node

#### Input

| Name                   | Type                                            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| :--------------------- | :---------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `~/input/lanelet2_map` | `autoware_auto_mapping_msgs::msg::HADMapBin`    | Data of lanelet2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `~/input/image`        | `sensor_msgs::msg::Image`                       | Camera Image                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `~/input/camera_info`  | `sensor_msgs::msg::CameraInfo`                  | Camera Info                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `~/input/ekf_pose`     | `geometry_msgs::msg::PoseWithCovarianceStamped` | EKF Pose without IMU correction. It is used to validate detected AR tags by filtering out False Positives. Only if the EKF Pose and the AR tag-detected Pose are within a certain temporal and spatial range, the AR tag-detected Pose is considered valid and published. |

#### Output

| Name                            | Type                                            | Description                                                                               |
| :------------------------------ | :---------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `~/output/pose_with_covariance` | `geometry_msgs::msg::PoseWithCovarianceStamped` | Estimated Pose                                                                            |
| `~/debug/result`                | `sensor_msgs::msg::Image`                       | [debug topic] Image in which marker detection results are superimposed on the input image |
| `~/debug/marker`                | `visualization_msgs::msg::MarkerArray`          | [debug topic] Loaded landmarks to visualize in Rviz as thin boards                        |
| `/tf`                           | `geometry_msgs::msg::TransformStamped`          | [debug topic] TF from camera to detected tag                                              |
| `/diagnostics`                  | `diagnostic_msgs::msg::DiagnosticArray`         | Diagnostics outputs                                                                       |

## How to launch

When launching Autoware, set `artag` for `pose_source`.

```bash
ros2 launch autoware_launch ... \
    pose_source:=artag \
    ...
```

### Rosbag

#### [Sample rosbag and map (AWSIM data)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1uMVwQQFcfs8JOqfoA1FqfH_fLPwQ71jK/view)

This data is simulated data created by [AWSIM](https://tier4.github.io/AWSIM/).
Essentially, AR tag-based self-localization is not intended for such public road driving, but for driving in a smaller area, so the max driving speed is set at 15 km/h.

It is a known problem that the timing of when each AR tag begins to be detected can cause significant changes in estimation.

![sample_result_in_awsim](./doc_image/sample_result_in_awsim.png)

#### [Sample rosbag and map (Real world data)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wiCQjyjRnYbb0dg8G6mRecdSGh8tv3zR/view)

Please remap the topic names and play it.

```bash
ros2 bag play /path/to/ar_tag_based_localizer_sample_bag/ -r 0.5 -s sqlite3 \
     --remap /sensing/camera/front/image:=/sensing/camera/traffic_light/image_raw \
             /sensing/camera/front/image/info:=/sensing/camera/traffic_light/camera_info
```

This dataset contains issues such as missing IMU data, and overall the accuracy is low. Even when running AR tag-based self-localization, significant difference from the true trajectory can be observed.

The image below shows the trajectory when the sample is executed and plotted.

![sample_result](./doc_image/sample_result.png)

The pull request video below should also be helpful.

<https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware.universe/pull/4347#issuecomment-1663155248>

## Principle

![principle](../doc_image/principle.png)
